BLOEMFONTEIN - African National Congress Mangaung regional executive committee congratulated the newly appointed Ward 9 councillor Nozenza Cezula from Ratlou in Thaba Nchu. The party s Mangaung region convened the media briefing yesterday (Thursday, 02 March) to reflect on its work towards by-elections of Ward 39 and the ultimate victory. ANC contested elections during the past municipal elections held on 03 August 2016. The party contested all wards and received majority support from voters in Mangaung, Ward 39 included. Shortly after the elections the organisation was confronted by the dead of Tankiso Moea who was an ANC councillor in Ward 39. This compelled Mangaung municipality to declare a vacancy.Speaking during the media briefing at Kaizer Sebothelo building ANC Mangaung region general secretary Paseka Nompondo said, "We appreciate the support provided by the entire leadership of the ANC at all levels, alliance partners and general support of the ANC, said Nompondo. He added the ANC continues to contest elections with the view that its victory should translate in programmes that will bring radical economic transformation and ensure that we attain our vision of a better life for all. In deciding on the candidate, the ANC embarked on intensive internal process to decide on a candidate and further extended the consultation to communities through community meetings. He said the party s candidate reflected the will of the people even before bi-elections took place. The volunteers of the ANC embarked on mobilization programmes which included door to door, sectoral and community meetings. The outcomes of these meetings highlighted challenges which are still confronting our communities, some of these challenges include eradication of VIP toilets, inaccessible roads and poverty. All issues raised through door to door meetings will be forwarded to municipality to include them on their planning and ultimately resolve them, promised Nompondo. He concluded by saying: we are therefore pleased as ANC to announce that once again, community of Ward 39 has bestowed trust in us by voting ANC in majority. The ANC has therefore won ward 39 by-elections with 2 320 votes out of voter turnout of 5 369. ANCWL Provincial Chairperson who is also Mangaung Metro Municipality Executive Mayor, Cllr. Olly Mlamleli, emphasised that the newly elected ANC councillor in ward 39 Mangaung was not elected for status, but to undertake a massive responsibility to implement the ANC manifesto to the tee. Nozenza Betty Cezula the newly elected councillor, thanked the people for showing confidence in the ANC by reaffirming it as the leader of the people. She further emphasized that efforts will be intensified to deliver service to the people.