SASOLBURG - The marriage of convenience between the political parties that gave birth to a coalition to govern Metsimaholo council is beginning to fall apart barely three months into the council. The Democratic Alliance (DA), Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), Freedom Front Plus (VFF) and the Metsimaholo Civic Association (MCA) came together to forge a coalition that saw them seize control of council after the hung local government elections of the August 3. Recent events point to a situation where the difference in political ideologies begins to be telling on the coalition.Dumelang News is in possession of a document allegedly penned by the MCA to the EFF secretary general requesting the party to look into the rogue behaviour of one of its councillors, April Motaung. the MCA leadership would like your quick intervention to address challenges that we are facing as a result of unacceptable behaviour of April Motaung and Selloane. For the past three weeks they have been very difficult to contain, read part of the document. Some of the concerns raised in the document include the persistent attack on the Executive Mayor, Sello Hlasa of MCA. Motaung is accused of having appeared on a local radio station encouraging members of the community to occupy land that is meant for housing.The same councillor is alleged to have said that he would make the municipality ungovernable as well as encouraging workers who were yet to be reinstated to return to work immediately. This has resulted in a serious tension between him and the concerned parties. The following are some of the issues we are not happy about; 1. Persistence (sic) attack on the mayor and the speaker 2.Persistence (sic) attack on the staff of municipality 3. Demanding of office at municipality 4. Demanding the managerial position in the office of the mayor and speaker 5. Threatening the coalition if his demands are not met. Motaung is also accused of appointing his wife as one of the Public Participation Officers (PPOs), something that did not sit well with other members of the EFF. As a result, his colleagues are now calling for the mayor to get rid of Motaung s wife. Meanwhile, EFF councillors are also accusing mayor Hlasa of nepotism following the appointment of Stephen Molala as municipal manager. Molala is accused of mismanaging municipal funds. On another front, the DA is accused of shunning local councillors in preference of outsiders. Of the eight MMCs, half of them come from areas such as Botshabelo, Johannesburg, Bothaville and Bethlehem. There is no gender balance at all as all eight are male, said a source. Efforts to get a comment from Hlasa proved futile at the time of going to print as his personal assistant said he was too busy with a series of meetings. 