Dumelang News: Mayor,please tell us,what is the Special Economic Zone (SEZ)? Vusi Tshabalala: Well, SEZ is a geographically designated area of a country set aside for specifically targeted economic activities, which are the supported through special arrangements and support system to promote industrial development. DN : As it has been officially opened by the president of the Republic of South Africa, how would residents of the Free State, particularly MAP benefit by it? VT : This is an opportunity to all residents to showcase their businesses in order to attract many investors around the world, to drive the economy of the province and in particular to the municipality. DN : Tell us about the types of business ventures expected to be opened after this launch. VT: There are many business types expected to be opened, food processing, whereby food packaging would take place. Goods will be transported within and outside the borders of SA. The medical appliances companies are among those we also expect to see in this zone. DN: What types of businesses have shown an interest in investing at the MAP-SEZ so far? VT: The companies run by the Chinese are among the companies that have been interested in investing in our municipality. We also have an investment in Toyota, which is interested in opening a plant that will be dealing with motor parts. DN: We can see that the investors have shown their interest in terms of working on the MAP-SEZ,what is the municipal target in terms of people who will work in the zone? VT: As the municipality, the unemployment of our youth is a serious concern, we are ready to train young people and bring them into these projects, because we are willing to create more jobs for them. DN: Where would the MAP municipality get the funds to train these youths? VT: We have received an amount of R13.5m from SEDA to train 100 youths in the skills programme for a period of 3 years. DN: Does the opportunities of the MAP-SEZ only apply to MAP residents or Tshiame in particular? VT: No, this is an opportunity for everyone interested to come and open a business, but we would like to see many people of the Free State being the first priority, especially people from MAP. DN: What makes Harrismith economically so special compared to other towns in the Eastern Free State? VT: It becomes so special because it is based at the centre of MAP and in the province. The N3 highway, is a juncture where many trucks carrying goods pass and this presents huge opportunities. DN: Thanks for your time mayor. VT: Thanks you. And people must understand that the good things cannot be seen within a day, but it will time to witness them. We laying the ground work to turn on economy around which historically had advantaged only certain people and sectors.