Burning issues affecting Africans living in the diaspora were raised during the Africa Day celebrations at the Free State legislature on Thursday. Africa Day was created by the African Union in 1963 on May 25 and it is observed as a holiday in all African countries on the continent except for South Africa, which treats it like a normal day. In the Free State, Africans from Nigeria, Cameroon, Uganda, Tanzania, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Angola, Rwanda, DRC Congo, Mozambique, Malawi, Kenya, Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, Congo, Somalia and Ethiopia attended the celebrations.The vice president of the Nigerian Union of South Africa Free State Province (NUSAFSP), Kaje Alozie K.K said Bloemfontein was the best host for foreigners and they appreciated the welcome. He said there were concerning issues when it came to applying for asylum status at Home Affairs as they would have to often wait a long time for their applications to be approved and that they could also not study at institutions of higher learning when they have asylum papers. Kaje said those who had acquired temporary residence permits also have to wait even longer period before their permanent residence permits were approved and pleaded with Home Affairs to resolve their problems quickly. We are all immigrants. There has always been a movement for security. Israelites moved to Egypt when there was famine in Israel and they sought asylum in Egypt and the king welcomed them, said Kaje. He said Africans from the continent moved to other parts of the world including South Africa because they were running away from political and financial battles. He said Nigerian foreigners created jobs in South Africa and employed the locals. Amos Lefeh Fih from Cameroon pleaded with banks to accept their asylum seeker papers as legal documents and allow them to open up bank accounts which would make life easier for them. He said criminals attacked them at their homes because they knew that they did not have bank accounts. Amos said those who have bank accounts experience the accounts being freezed when their permits have expired. Michael Takundwa from Zimbabwe, who has been living in South Africa for fourteen years, said the local government should consider them in giving them houses as they had married South African women. He urged the African Union to force Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe to retire as he had caused a lot of damage to the country. Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Governance in the Legislature, Matshepo Mokotla, was the keynote speaker at the Africa Day Celebrations, whereby she urged unity of the continent. She said Africa was rich in mineral resources but her people were living in extreme poverty. We were all colonised but we cannot put the prize of life on differences. Those who died for our freedom shouldn t have died for free. Our resources are there for Africans, we are rich and yet we are poor. Some people are benefiting whereas others are not benefiting in the mineral resources of this continent, said Mokotla. She said the Free State government would continue to deliver services and education for all, and fight xenophobia wherever it rears its ugly head. She said Africans should fight crime, poverty and inequality.