Revered former Bloemfontein Celtics owner and businessman, Dr Rantlai Petrus Molemela (83) will be laid to rest next week Tuesday at the Phahameng cemetery. Molemela, who was also known as Whitehead , died on Sunday morning while asleep at his home in Rocklands and his death sent shockwaves throughout the country. He had made a name for himself, as a humanitarian and philanthropist. Even in his old age Ntate Molemela was often seen driving himself to watch football games where Siwelele played against other Premier Soccer League teams.His presence at the stadium would make Celtics players play harder as they knew that he did not tolerate mediocrity even though he had a big heart. Molemela s friend and homeboy Lebohang Molisaesi (69) said he has lost a good father and was saddened by Molemela s death. I knew Ntate Molemela from when I was growing up in Rocklands [sic] and he used to ride bicycles to do his businesses. He used to build houses in Bloemfontein through his construction company and built a hotel which were later used by players from other countries in the continent who were playing for Bloemfontein Celtics. I was close to him, we would talk about business and life in general and he was quiet humorous, said Molisaesi.Molisaesi said he had worked as a policeman and after retiring he always talked to Ntate Molemela as he was a very caring man. Molisaesi said Ntate Molemela had told him on 17 March that he was not going to live long. Molisaesi said he was shocked to hear that Molemela died on Sunday morning. His biographer, Charley Pietersen, said Ntate Molemela s death shocked him because he had spoken to him on Saturday not knowing that it would be the last time. Pietersen wrote the biography of Ntate Molemela titled I have seen it all and he had worked with him for 29 years after he recruited him from FNB bank where he used to work as a bank teller. Ntate would often come to the bank to deposit money from his businesses on Tuesdays and I would often help him. We talked about how he could save and re-invest his money so that he could run successful business and he asked me to work for him. I took the job and it had been some of the greatest years of my life, as I started as his bookkeeper, public relations officer and later as the CEO of the team, said Pietersen. He said Ntate Molemela was a visionary and passionate about football as he called Celtics his last born child. Pietersen said Ntate Molemela used to pay players from his own pocket before the sponsors came on board to help the team. Celtics was later sold to Jimmy Agousti and later to Max Tshabalala.Celtics Spokesman, Sello Nduna, said the team had lost a father and life president of the team and said he should rest in peace. Family Spokesman, Quentin Eister, said the family and the country had lost a wise-man who cared for his community. He said the family was coping well and that about 15 000 people were expected at the funeral service which would be held at the Rantlai Molemela stadium. He added that they were thankful for the message of support coming from ordinary people and famous people in the country. The memorial service would be held at the St John Methodist church in Batho Location and he would be buried on April 4. Dr Irvin Khoza, Dr Danny Jordan and many other well-known people have paid tribute to the Bloemfontein giant.The spokesman for presidency Dr Bongani Ngqulunga issued a statement that President Jacob Zuma has declared a Special Provincial Official funeral category two for Molemela, and has expressed his sadness and extended heartfelt condolences to Molemela family, relatives and all in the soccer fraternity as well as sports community at large. The President has instructed that the National Flag fly at half-mast at every station in the Free State province on the day of the funeral of Dr Molemela.