Mohlaodi Mphuthi : Who is Lindiwe Makhalema? Lindiwe Makhalema ; Lindiwe Makhalema is a woman who was born in Bethlehem, like any child I grew up in the dusty streets of this town. My activism in politics started very early joining the congress of South African Students, which later I happen to have grown in the ranks of my organisation the ANC, which has been assigning me different responsibility at various levels. MM : Last Local Government Election saw you becoming the first female Mayor of Dihlabeng, how it feels that you have made such a history? LM : It is an honour for me to be the first female Executive Mayor in Dihlabeng local municipality, more importantly I wish to send my sincere appreciation to my organisation ANC and its collective leadership to have arrived at the decision to entrust me with this herculean responsibility of being at the height of implementation of its policies at local government level. Local government is a front desk of service delivery, this imposes on me and the collective I am working with the responsibility to change the face of service delivery in our localities. MM :What can you attribute as the economy of Dihlabeng and how will you help grow it? LM : Dihlabeng is the economic basket of the eastern Free State, we are a tourist attraction area with Clarens being worldly acclaimed, we are also a rich agricultural area, the products which are produced here are consumed in the country and abroad. We hope to industrialise to grow our local economy, because it is through industrialisation majority of our citizens will participate in the economic mainstream of our country. We hope to attract more investment, into our area but more importantly direct our energies into SMME development, so that our local economy can grow and create jobs as well. MM : What are the highlight of your term since resuming office? LM : The highlights of my term so far, would be the impact we have made collectively with those surrounding me in changing the lives of our people, both young and old. We have accelerated the provision of services, changed the face of our localities. Clarens has recently won the cleanest town awards which signifies our collective efforts to make Dihlabeng a better place. MM : What are the current challenge facing your municipality and what are your interventions? LM : One of the biggest challenges facing our municipality is non-payment of services by the community, even those who qualify to be registered as indigent do not come, so that they are registered as indigent. This is a challenge because there are other service delivery programs which we cannot implement, we have millions of rand s that are lying out there which some people are deliberately not paying, it poses a serious challenge because we have an ageing infrastructure which needs to be replaced so that our people continue to enjoy quality basic services. We have launched operation patala as a program that encourages our communities to pay for their services so that we continue to serve them better. MM : In celebration of Freedom month what is your message to the residents of Dihlabeng? LM : Drawing from history there are many activities that are painful that have taken place during the course of the month of April, I am particularly referring to the hanging of Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu , by the apartheid regime, the killing of our liberation stalwart, the chief of staff of the armed forces of ANC and Umkhonto wesizwe Cde Chris Thembisile Hani. As painful as it is to have lost them, I can safely say their blood nourished tree of freedom, which ushered our democratic dispensation on the 27th April 1994. My message to our communities out there is that they should remember the significance of this and the activities related to it. Our arrival to a democratic South Africa was not easy sacrifices were made and families lost their loved ones who sacrificed their lives for the liberation of our country. Those who will be travelling far and wide in our country must be safe on the roads, observe the rules of the road, should not drink and drive because it is during this period where we are experiencing a lot of fatalities. I hope they all enjoy themselves during this Easter period. MM : If you were to advocate for certain rights, what would they be? LM : It would for the rights of citizens, especially women and children, whose rights are trampled upon by those suffering from patriarchal relations of power. Our constitution is clear and explicit about the rights of individuals. MM : How will you want to be remembered after your term of office? I would to be remembered as someone who was committed to serving our communities, whose resolve to fight the triple challenge of poverty, unemployment, and inequality was beyond reproach. It is my greatest wish to be seen as someone who pushed for the implementation of ANC policies to the maximum. It is through this policies that the quality of life of our people can change. MM : In your view is South Africa ready for a female president? LM: Women have proven on a number of occasions that they can lead and succeed in their respective responsibilities, I would not think at this point in our democracy we should be discussing whether or not women are ready to lead this country. We have women who stand head and shoulders with their male counterparts. It goes without a shadow of a doubt that they are ready. MM : In terms of charity which organization if any you support and why? LM : We are supporting many charity organisations, schools, churches, individuals and groups who seek assistance for a good course. It is only through collaborative efforts and assisting each other that the vision of building a prosperous country will succeed