Maluti-A-Phofung Local Municipality in collaboration with the National Department of Water and Sedibeng Water are currently working on fixing the old water infrastructure network to improve service delivery of water in the region. The Executive Mayor of Maluti-a-Phofung, Cllr. Vusi Tshabalala, said he wanted to inform residents about the funds the municipality has allocated from the Department of Water and Sanitations. He said they are currently working on the pump stations at Thabong, Mabolela, Masaleng, Phahameng and Intabazwe in order to bring much-needed water to the residents."There is no longer a water crisis in Qwaqwa because the dams are full after the recent rainfalls. The Fika Patso dam is at a 70 percent water level at the moment while the Metsi Matsho dam is standing at 100 percent," he said. He said Sterkfontein is at 98 percent water level, which was very encouraging. He said the only challenge the municipality was working on at this stage, was working to fix the old infrastructure. "The pipes we're using at the moment cause us to lose a lot water due to leakage. This is because they have been in service for more than fifty years now," Tshabalala said on the sideline of the prayer service which was held in Qwaqwa on Saturday. He added that he would like to thank prophet Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng for his contribution by praying for rains in the municipality. "He played a vital role during the times of drought. Today our dams are full of water. Hence he's part of our function today," said Tshabalala. Nomvula Mkonyane, the minister of Water and Sanitation, told the crowd on Saturday at the Phuthaditjhaba Multipurpose Hall in Qwaqwa, that the department was working hard to supply residents with water. Mokonyane urged residents to remain patient and understand the challenges faced by the municipality. "We cannot ignore the fact that our people have struggled for a long time, living without water. The department is working to ensure that all the older pipes infrastructure are removed and replaced with new ones to service the people," said Minister Mokonyane. She said she will continue ensuring that her department helps the municipality with the funds and other infrastructure. She urged residents to use water wisely. "Even though the dams are full, we still need to use water wisely, she said.