The community of Maluti-A-Phofung in Qwaqwa celebrated Freedom day by planting trees at Eertegeluk farm. More than hundred people were led by Mayor Vusi Tshabalala who was the first one to turn the sod by planting a tree. The trees would conserve soil and provide much needed fruits for the community. Tshabalala said the celebration was aimed at celebrating the lives of the fallen heroes who have fight for freedom. We know that the president Jacob Zuma has declared this year as the O.R Tambo year. But if you can check, those people have not enjoy the fruits for the freedom but we are, Tshabalala said. According to Tshabalala, the event was held on the farm because they wanted to celebrate with the farmers. In most cases we ignore the people on the farm and it came to my heart that we should celebrate this year s event on the farm. We want them to know that we want to work and live with them, he said. He said they were aware of the challenges that the farm people where faced with and they would make sure that they work hard to help them. We know that they sometimes faced with farm evictions, unemployment. They need water and many others, he said. President Jacob Zuma addressed community of uMhlabuyalingana in Manguzi on freedom day. The President visited the area for the second time. In March, President Zuma was accompanied by Defence and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, State Security Minister David Mahlobo, KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu and KwaZulu-Natal Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda listened to what the community had to say about life in uMhlabuyalingana. Community members complained about crime, particularly stock and vehicle theft. Yesterday the community interacted with the President. Given that the country was celebrating 23 years of freedom, many of the locals were pleased that government had brought the official event to their backyard. Various Freedom day celebrations also took place in many parts of the Free State.