The Thabo Mofutsanyana District municipality has injected R1.6 million into the purchase of agricultural implements and seeds in their endeavour to uplift the emerging farmers within the district. The money was spent on fertilizers with 16 nutrients, mobile milking machines, dry bean seeds, garden tools, agricultural chemicals, vegetables seeds, jojo tanks and water pumps which were donated to 26 farmers. The donation was handed over at the Farmer s Day celebration which was held at the Swinburne Farmer s Association Hall, about 21 kilometres outside Harrismith on the road to KwaZulu Natal on Thursday. The celebration that attracted about 100 farmers was aimed at donating and educating the farmers about the different aspects in line with their farming. They were taught about animal health, artificial insemination, bull and heifer selection.Masedi Letuka of the Kestell Gedult farm was one of the beneficiaries who received 36 bags of dry bean seeds. He said he was very happy with what the district municipality has done for him. I plant beans every year. The donated bags will help me a lot because I would not spend a lot of money like I used to. Yes, they are not enough but I am happy with the little that they have donated because they have to help us all, he said. Malefu Vilakazi, the executive mayor of the district municipality said they have spent R1.6 million on the donation because the economy of the district relied mainly on farming. She said they handed out the donation as a response to the needs which were identified during the IDP road show. We are nothing without our farmers hence we should always support them. Our budget is limited but we always strive to do our best to see that we share with our farmers out of that, she said. She told the farmers that her doors are open for them to come at any time they needed her assistance. We urge our farmers to go out and plant so that we can have something to eat. We are going to make sure that we come back and give workshops to our farmers because we want to make sure that they use those things in the right way, she said. Piet Roets, the chairperson of the Swinburne Farmers Association, said they were proud of the district municipality and were grateful that it cared for them.