The 2017 Hurun Global Rich List has ranked 2,257 billionaires from 68 countries and from 1,811 companies in another record-breaking year for the world s super-rich. Total billionaire wealth increased by 16% to US$8.0 trillion, the group said, equivalent to 10.7% of global GDP, and up from 7% of global GDP five years ago. It has been generally another good year for the billionaires of the world. 1,037 saw their wealth increase, with 343 new faces added to the billionaire club. Chinese billionaires led the USA for the second year running, with 609 featured on the list, compared to 552 from the States. It has been a good year for Germany, which surged past India into third place. India lost 11 billionaires mainly on the back of demonetisation, while Russia lost 12 billionaires despite a 30% appreciation of the ruble to the dollar. As many as six South Africans feature on the list, the same number as in 2015. South Africa saw Nicky Oppenheimer &amp; family of De Beers Fame overtake Pepkor s Chris Wiese as the country s wealthiest man by a small margin. 10. Cyril Ramaphosa Net Worth: $675 Million Industry: Investments/Self Made A lover of fast cars, vintage wine, trout fishing and game farming, Cyril Ramaphosa is the second richest black businessman in South Africa. He had always loved politics and was hoping to become Nelson Mandela s vice president which never worked out. 9. Desmond Sacco Net Worth: $680 million ($ 1.7 billion) Industry: Mining Sacco took over the reins of Assore Group from his father Guido Sacco who founded it. For the first time, he managed to make it to the Forbes Billionaire list after the stocks of his company surged on the stock exchange. Desmond studied Geology from university of South Africa 8. Lauritz (Laurie) Dippenaar Net Worth: $ 730 Million Industry: Banking/Insurance Laurie Dippenaar is a qualified Chartered accountant who built a financial services empire over the last several decades Dippenaar is non-executive chairman of FirstRand. Dippenaar s hobbies include cycling, canoeing and watching rugby. 7. Stephen Saad. Net worth: $1.7 Billion Industry: Pharmaceuticals Stephen Saad is one of the billionaires in South Africa. His net worth is currently at $1.7 billion which is a huge lift from the $1 billion calculated as his net worth last year During his 20s, he started and ran a few small firms which were in pharmaceutical business. Of which, he sold his share in one of them for 3 million and became a millionaire overnight back in the late 1990s. later on, he founded Aspen Pharmacare 6. Motsepe Patrice Net Worth: $2.5 Billion Industry: Mining Patrice Motsepe highlights what is still a problem on the African continent; systemic racism. Motsepe still remains the only black dollar billionaire in South Africa, a nation made up predominantly of black people but sees the majority of its wealth lay in the hands of whites. Patrice is the founder and executive chairman of African Rainbow Minerals, which has interests in ferrous metals, base metals, gold and platinum. 5. Koos Bekker Net Worth: $2. 6 Billion Industry: Media Bekker is one of the media tycoons that has a knack for spotting real talent and it has served him well. In April last year, Koos Bekker stepped down as chief executive of Naspers, the media juggernaut he has led since 1997. During his tenure, Naspers market capitalization grew from $600 million to $45 billion Naspers owns MWEB, South Africa s second-largest internet service provider, magazine publisher, Media24, and OLX, a business classifieds company 4. Christoffel Wiese Net Worth: $5.4 Billion Industry: Retail Wiese studied Law at the university of Stellenbosch. After school, he took up a job as an executive director at Pep Stores, a discount clothing chain co-founded by his parents which later diversified by acquiring a small retail chain, Shoprite. Today, Shoprite is Africa s largest discount grocery retailer. Wiese is the largest individual shareholder of Shoprite. It operates 453 grocery stores in South Africa and across Sub-Saharan Africa. 3. Allan Gray Net Worth: $6.2 Billion Industry: Financial Services He is the founder of Allan Gray Limited which is South Africa s largest privately owned investment firm with assets under management in excess of $30 billion. Allan Gray is a reclusive billionaire who initially studied at Rhodes University, South Africa, qualifying as a chartered accountant before receiving an MBA from the Harvard Business School. 2. Nicky Oppenheimer Net Worth: $6.8 Billion Industry: Mining (Diamonds) In 1927 Oppenheimer s grandfather Sir Ernest, took over De Beers, a company which was originally founded by Cecil John Rhodes in 1888, and consolidated the company s global monopoly over the world s diamond industry. In 2012, Nicky Oppenheimer sold his family s 40-percent stake in De Beers, the world s largest diamond producer, to mining behemoth Anglo-American for $5.1 billion in cash 1. Johann Rupert: Net worth: $7.3 Billion Industry: Diversified Johann Rupert is not just South Africa s richest white man, he is the richest man in South Africa this year Rupert is an avid golfer, cricketer and conservationist, he serves as the head of the South African PGA Tour Rupert also owns two of South Africa s best-known vineyards, Rupert &amp; Rothschild and Anthonij Rupert Wines. After a one-year sabbatical, Rupert returned as the Chairman of Compagnie Financiere Richemont, the sixth largest company on the Swiss stock exchange and the third largest luxury goods chain in the world. Richemont also owns 20 premium brands including the very famous Cartier, Dunhill, Van Cleef &amp; Arpels, Montblanc and Chloe, among others.