The Mayor of Matjhabeng Municipality and Chairman of Lejweleputswa region, Nkosinjani Speelman, delivered a stern warning against those who speak badly about President Jacob Zuma. Speelman said it was wrong for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, Gwede Mantashe, Zweli Mkhize and South African Communist Party to publicly attack Zuma on his shock cabinet reshuffle. He said he did not care whether the rand lost value but that the African National Congress wanted redistribution of land without compensation and radical economic transformation for black people.He said black people were still living under the yoke of poverty and that nothing had been done to change the lives of the people living in shacks. We had a rally in Theunissen to defend President Jacob Zuma on his cabinet reshuffle because it is his prerogative and exercised his constitutional powers. We can t allow a situation where people want to make a mockery of the country by going public about their disagreements. There were people who were perpetuating a division at the funeral and memorial service of Ahmed Kathrada. The president is elected within the structures of the party in the branches not at the funerals. No one can attack the president of ANC and expect us to remain quiet, said Speelman.He said the people who were calling for the removal of Zuma were the same people who accused former President Thabo Mbeki of being aloof. Speelman said those who want to contest elections should follow the party s rules and not start mobilising at funerals. Speelman said he would be leading the Hands off Jacob Zuma march in Johannesburg on Friday. He said people wanted the land but large tracts of land were in the hands of white minority. Speelman said the rand could depreciate because it was not benefitting the poor people even when it was strong. He said Zuma had served his term and those who want to lead ANC and the country should wait for December when the party goes for elective conference.Speelman said the banks had colluded and that rating agencies had colluded against the country so that there could be regime change. We want the land and we are not apologetic about that, he said.