The misbehavior shown by some of the initiation school principals and teachers led the comittee to held a meeting. The comittee meeting was sitting with the principals and men who came from the initiation school at the Mabolela tribal office in Qwaqwa on saturday. In an exclusive interview with The People's Paper,chairperson of the comittee,Dieke Mokoena said they decided to have such meeting because of the bad behaviour shown by some initiation school's authorities.Mokoena said most of the initiation schools are not run according to the traditional policy. 'We have experienced many challenges during the initiation season. The schools are led by young teachers who have just released from schools", said Mokoena.He said it is very disappointing to find that teachers and principals take the lives of the initiations for granted. "In the 2016 initiation season,at least four initiations have lost their lives unnessesary", he said. He said if the principals can understand the reason why elderly people came up with opening the initiations schools,they will start ensuring that they bring back their dignity. "We are worried as the comitte because most of the principals nowadays,open the schools for business", he said. Mokoena said they cannot allow anyone to mess up with legacy set by their elders. "We'll deal strongly with those who think they can do anything they want at our initiation scholols", he concluded. Ntsane Mokoena,a principal said the reason behind all misconducts are caused by group of gangs who attack the schools. He said people turned the initiation schools to the field of gangs where they think people should be killed. "Its a misunderstanding that,most people think that principals and teachers are the one who causes havock in the initiations schools', he said. He said too much drinking of alcohol by the visitors at the schools is one other reason why so many attacks happened. Lehlohonolo Motaung (28) ,an ex-student,said he is happy that the dignity of the initiation schools will come back. "What I hate the most is when I see an old person acts like a child at the tarvens when they are drunk. By showing off everything men do while they are at the initiations", said Lehlohonolo.