BLOEMFONTEIN- The Executive Mayor of Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality, Olly Mlamleli, has expressed confidence that the intermodal taxi rank in downtown Bloemfontein that has been lying idle for four years will be operational by the end of the October. Mlamleli said this when she signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the Taxi Association following the completion of the first phase of the Integrated Public Transport Network (IPTN) on Maphisa Road in Phahameng in Bloemfontein on Wednesday 12 October.The agreement which was preceded by numerous consultations between the various stakeholders indicated that the parties involved are in agreement regarding the implementation of the IPTN. Today is a dream come true and we will also finally see that Mangaung has bus routes like Cape Town, Johannesburg and Tshwane, said the mayor. She further articulated that as part of the Transport Month commemorations, they were looking to open the multi-million-rand Intermodal Facility which has not been used since its completion. One of the things that I decided when I came in, was to work together with the taxi associations to ensure that this MOA is signed and that we can get into the second phase of the IPTN, she said.She emphasised that the marriage of the two would ensure that the infrastructure would contribute towards the economy of the province. Molema Mogorosi, from the Taxi Association, said that the industry and the municipality had created a joint technical committee where all their representatives sit. This is a milestone and none of this would have happened if it was not for the commitment of the municipality to this project, he said. He further added that the mayor had shown that she has the political will to see the project through. For that we are very much grateful to you but what still needs to be done is the appointment of our advisors so that the industry is better resourced to commence with the project, he said. The next phase of the IPTN will include the construction of bus ways, bus stations that are both open and closed, new bus depot for the buses, procurement of buses that cater for persons with disabilities as well as the removal of taxis and buses that will be affected by the implementation of the system.