Lejweleputswa - Messages of support and condolences continued to poured in yesterday during an emotional memorial service of the late Sthembiso Dabi, who was the African National Congress Youth League s regional secretary in Fezile Dabi. The young Dabi (35), died in a car accident. Dabi was remembered as a hardworking and dedicated cadre of the movement during his short life as a member of the African National Congress. His friend, Thami Tu, said he was called to the scene of accident where he died after attending a conference in Lejweleputswa.Dabi was known as a unifier, selfless leader and a good friend who always encouraged everyone to go back to school to complete their Matric. Tu said they grew up together and were in the same party for many years but his friend never showed any ambition despite coming from a well-known family. I grew up together with Sthembiso and we had been friends from an early age even until his last days on earth. We have lost a true leader who was never afraid to express his opinions in a respectable manner as he believed in persuading people to see his side. He was a principled man and did not like anyone to be discriminated against, said Tu.He said in 2014, he was elected as the regional secretary of ANC Youth League uncontested, a move that solidified his popularity as the man of the people. Tu said Dabi did not use the popularity of his father Fezile Dabi to get favours but worked hard for anything that he got. Dabi used to work as a clerk at Fezile Dabi municipality. African National Congress provincial youth league spokesperson, Sello Pietersen, in a statement said they were saddened by the sudden passing away of Dabi. The African National Congress youth league in the Free State province has learned of the untimely passing of the Regional Secretary of the Fezile Dabi region, Cde Sthembiso Dabi. This young lion was involved in a fatal car accident on his way back from the ANCYL regional congress of the Lejweleputswa when he was met with this sad and unfortunate ending of his young and valuable life, said Pietersen. He said that Youth League was sent its heartfelt condolences to the Dabi family and promised to fight for economic freedom for all South Africans. The Fezile Dabi Municipality spokesperson, Thomas Nopheche, said Dabi was a disciplined and dedicated youth leader who wanted to see the development of other youths. He said the municipality had been named after his father because of his selfless work he did to the community and his son was also passionate about his community. Sthembiso was passionate about youth development and a very disciplined someone who was not proud but very humble. We wanted to work with him but death cut his life short. We pass our condolences to his family and may his soul rest in peace, Nopheche said.