NATIONAL During his mid term budget speech on Wednesday, Finance Minister, Nhlanhla Nene admitted that global economic growth has slowed, commodity prices remain depressed and unemployment has increased in many parts of the world, factors that contributed to a revised revenue estimate for the period ahead. He said education and skills development account for the largest share of spending, health services, social protection, infrastructure investment and support for job creation are also prioritised.He added that the country s economy will grow at about 1.5 per cent this year, rising marginally to 1.7 per cent next year. This is considerably lower than at the time of the February budget, when we envisaged 2 per cent this year and 2.4 per cent in 2016. The IMF also projects a decline in growth next year said Nene.He attributed these changes to amongst others the electricity supply constraints, falling commodity prices and lower confidence levels.Nene said investment growth will be just 1.2 per cent this year and limited employment growth and household income constraints are holding back consumption. Exports have grown strongly this year, a welcome recovery after setbacks in mining and manufacturing last year. Although exports have grown faster than imports since 2012, the current account deficit on the balance of payments is still a sizeable 4.1 per cent of GDP this year. Consumer price inflation has declined from 6.1 per cent in 2014 to a projected 4.8 per cent this year. Higher food prices and the weakening of the rand are expected to contribute to a rebound in inflation to around 6 per cent a year over the period ahead, he said.According to the minister, financial market volatility is high and capital inflows into emerging markets have slowed and this has raised borrowing rates for emerging markets globally. He however said there was potential for growth which largely relied on factors such as amongst others the building of energy security from the side of Eskom, tax compliance. Meanwhile the Chief Executive Officer of the Free State Department of Treasury, Godfrey Mahlatsi, welcomed the Finance Minister, Nhlanhla Nene s mid-term budget speech. Speaking to Dumelang News Mahlatsi said the view is that government is taking time to prioritise its financial resources despite the current circumstances. We fully understand the need to contribute towards economic growth as the province for the benefit of all South Africans. It is expected that the provincial government will soon follow with its own adjusted budget. Last year during the adjust budget, the MEC of Finance, Elzabe Rockman was forced to re-channel provincial funds due to the national financial consolidation policy stance. It remains to be seen how this year the MEC tables the provincial adjusted budget.Adjustments: R3.8 billion is added to the provincial equitable share. Government proposes to allocate R313 billion to capital spending and housing. R165 billion allocated for community infrastructure. R229 billion will be transferred to municipalities for infrastructure projects. The old age, war veterans, and disability and care dependency grants are increased by R10. R13 billion will be added to social assistance budgets. Health budgets are set to grow by 8.3 per cent a year between 2015/16 and 2018/19. Basic education allocations over the MTEF increase by 8.2 per cent a year. Public employment programmes over the next three years amount to R37 billion. R24 billion in tax incentives and R16 billion in direct funding to support industrialisation. Adjustments Appropriation: 2015/16 Salary adjustment of R1.2 billion for national departments. R3.8 billion for provinces is the main revision to the expenditure estimates for this year. R720 million for the Department of International Relations and Cooperation to compensate for the depreciation of the rand. R1.2 billion in spending financed out of monies paid into the National Revenue Fund from departmental activities. R1.6 billion in rollovers from unspent balances in 2014/15, including delayed payments to municipalities which had unresolved utility arrears. R1.1 billion in additional transfers of skills levy revenue to sector education and training authorities and the National Skills Fund. Special appropriations: R23 billion allocation to Eskom. R2 billion allocation for the New Development Bank, financed through the sale of Government s shareholding in Vodacom. Main budget deficit for 2015/16 is R176.3 billion.