The newly appointed Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhebane said the Constitution needed to be amended when responding to questions in the Free State legislature, on Thursday. Mkhwebane was responding to a litany of questions from the members of the Legislature, Public representatives and Municipal representatives from across the province on her two day visit to the province. She said that the reports which had been investigated during the term of Thuli Madonsela were being finalized. Mkhwebane said the reports regarding the redundant Taxi terminal at the Bloemfontein CBD would be released soon as well as that of the R140 million website done by Letlaka Media and others in the province.She said more than 200 cases were being investigated in the province by her office. There is no excuse that the 2013 investigations haven t been completed. The office of the public protector was established in 1995 by the constitution and as a chapter 9 institution we are mandated to work within the confines of the constitution, said Mkhwebane. She said her office did not pronounce itself on political issues and said members of the National Assembly should have taken the offer of EFF of amending the constitution so that the land could be expropriated without compensation.Mkhwebane said her office could initiate investigations even if there was no one complaining. The constitution needs to be amended because some of the decisions need to be taken by yourselves, members of the legislature. We have to change laws that don t help us as a people for the sake of peace. We are here because of the constitution, she said. She said that Black people must be treated well by their white counterparts especially those who are living in the farms. Mkhwebane said she was familiarizing herself with the reports which had been investigated by her predecessor Thuli Madonsela. MEC for Health Butana Khompela told Mkhwebane that the constitution had a lot of shortcomings that needed to be addressed and Tate Makgoe said the office of public protector must be respected. The Speaker of the Mangaung Metro Mxolisi Siyonzana said the councilors in the council must exhaust internal remedies before reporting to the public protector and Mkhwebane agreed with him.