Apple has unveiled its most important new iPhone for years to take on growing competition from Samsung Electronics, Google and a host of Chinese smartphone makers. CEO Tim Cook showed off the iPhone X with an edge-to-edge screen during an event at the company s new US$5bn (R65709 750 000.00) headquarters in Cupertino, California, on Tuesday. Cook pronounced the name ten , but it s written as X . The device, coming a decade after the original model, is Apple s first major redesign since 2014 and represents a significant upgrade to the iPhone 7 line. The device starts at $999 (R13128.81)and comes in 64GB and 256GB storage versions. Pre-orders start on 27 October and the phone will be available beginning 3 November, the company said. Apple shares fell 0.8% to $160.18 (R 2105.08) after the announcement. Apple shares have gained about 40% this year on expectations the new phone will reignite sales growth after a rare revenue decline last year. The iPhone accounts for almost two-thirds of total sales, and it s a hub for most of Apple s other products and services. The iPhone X will cost from $999 (R13128.81), a pricey psychological threshold for consumers that Apple will try to overcome with augmented reality features and other new technology. With expected innovations around AR, wireless charging, viewable screen size, OLED and more, the next iPhone is clearly poised for its largest upgrade cycle yet, Ben Schachter, an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA, wrote in a note to investors ahead of the event. More: Apple unveiled a new Watch on Tuesday that can make calls and access the Internet without an iPhone nearby, freeing the device from a limitation that had given some potential buyers pause. The new version, called Apple Watch Series 3, will use an existing iPhone phone number when making calls, Apple said. It supports the LTE high-speed mobile wireless data standard so users can stream music and check digital maps on their wrist. Previous Apple Watches needed to be tethered wirelessly to an iPhone. The LTE Watch starts at US$399 and will be available on 22 September in selected markets. It has a new processor that is 70% faster than last year s chip, Apple executive Jeff Williams said at the product s introduction. The company s Other Products unit, which includes the Watch, represented 6% of Apple s sales in its most recent quarter. However, the new LTE models may spur new sales as some consumers were turned off by the previous model s inability to free the Watch from their iPhones.