Premier of the Free State, Ace Magashule, paid tribute to the slain South African Communist Party (SACP) leader Chris Hani who was assassinated on 10 April 1993 by two right-wing extremists. Reflecting on Hani s contribution to the struggle movement during the apartheid regime on Monday, 10 April, the Premier said Hani was an esteemed organiser, a selfless cadre and a volunteer of the people, who was dedicated to the cause of the struggle till the end. Hani, was gunned down on the driveway of his home in Boksburg. Also the chief of staff of Umkhonto we Sizwe, the armed wing of the African National Congress (ANC), Hani was a fierce opponent of the apartheid government.Born on 28 June 1942 in the small town of Cofimvaba, Transkei, Hani was the fifth of six children. He attended Lovedale School in 1957, to finish his last two years. He twice finished two school grades in a single year. When Hani was 12 years old, after hearing his father's explanations about apartheid and the African National Congress, he wished to join the ANC but was still too young to be accepted. It was in Lovedale School that Hani joined the ANC Youth League when he was 15 years old, even though political activities were not allowed at black schools under apartheid. He influenced other students to join the ANC. Magashule said Hani s assassination nearly halted negotiations for peace taking place between the ANC and the former Apartheid regime.Magashule worked with Chris Hani during the struggle for freedom and democracy. After its banning, Magashule said the ANC relied on the underground operations to keep the momentum of the struggle. As an underground operative at the time, Magashule, together with Free State-born Member of Parliament Thabo Manyoni, the late Benji Cholota, and others, received orders from Chris Hani to render the Apartheid regime ungovernable. The killing of Chris Hani robbed our country of one of the disciplined volunteers of our struggle for socio-economic freedom, Magashule said.