Free State Premier Ace Magashule has endorsed President Jacob Zuma s cabinet reshuffle and says changes will improve efficient governance. The Free State fully supports the reshuffling of the national cabinet, said the premier s spokesperson Tiisetso Makhele on Thursday. Magashule further affirmed the support of the Free State government to the President Jacob Zuma as president of the country. As per the wishes of our electorate, we are confident that President Zuma shall stay in his elected position until he finishes his term in 2019, Makhele further said Magashule rubberstamped new ministers and deputies and said Zuma was guided by his constitutional obligations and conducted necessary consultations to make informed changes in the cabinet.Magashule, believed to be Zuma s close ally, further voiced his confidence in changes made in the national cabinet and said incoming ministers and deputies will improve the effectiveness and efficiency of government to implement its mandate as given to it by the electorate in the 2014 elections. The Premier is also confident that the changes made in the national cabinet will accelerate the attainment of radical economic transformation. As stated unequivocally in the Freedom Charter, the people must indeed share in the country s wealth, the statement further says. Ours is a unitary state and we are of the belief that all spheres of government must work together to achieve the set objectives in the National Development Plan (NDP) and other key strategies and plans of government, he said. Magashule is not the only premier backing Zuma s cabinet reshuffle.Last week Mpumalanga Premier, David Mabuza, lashed out at ANC top officials who aired the party s dirty laundry. Meanwhile, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe said on Wednesday that members of the party would not vote against President Jacob Zuma in a motion of no confidence Mantashe s statements come after a two-day meeting of the ANC s national working committee (NWC), which began on Monday and ended in the late hours of Tuesday night. The ANC secretary general said that although Zuma had consulted the ANC s senior ranks on former finance minister Pravin Gordhan s removal, the president had surprised the party s leadership when last Thursday s reshuffle affected 14 other ministries. ANC leaders had known since November 2016 that Gordhan would be fired and Mantashe said it was as a function of consultation that ANC MP Brian Molefe had not been his replacement. Why do you all think the ANC is Father Christmas?When asked whether Zuma would face any consequences for breaking from ANC policy, Mantashe answered that the president had been reminded of the Polokwane resolutions. He also said the NWC was satisfied with Zuma s explanation that Gordhan had been fired because of a breakdown in their relationship. Opposition parties have united in a call for Parliament s speaker, Baleka Mbete, to hold a vote of no confidence in Zuma. Mbete said she will begin consulting party leaders this week. Why do you all think the ANC is Father Christmas? We are members of the ANC in a political party system. We will not vote against the ANC, Mantashe said. The secretary general said Gordhan would not mobilise against the ANC because he is member of the party s senior leadership its national executive committee. He said it would be unacceptable if Gordhan, as an NEC member, protested against the ANC.