Miners from Lace Diamond mine in Kroonstad have been left high and dry after the owner of the mine shut down the mine without paying them. It has been six months and a few weeks now that the mine was closed on November 17, 2016, by the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Lowden, who claimed that the mine was struggling. He promised other mineworkers that they would be re-hired by the new owners but nothing has been done thus far. On Wednesday, a representative known as Lebohang Mphakathi came to see the mineworkers to give them retrenchment letters without any provident fund or pension pay-out as required by the law. He told the mineworkers that they would get their salaries dating back from November when the mine was still working. But the workers have lost hope that anything positive would come out of the promises. Ts okolo Matsela worked at Lace Diamond for four years as a truck driver and has six dependants, but is not able to support them because he has not been earning any salary since being retrenched. On 17 November 2016 we were summoned from underground to meet our CEO Paul Lowden who told us that the mine was running short of funds. He said he was closing the mine and that if he found a new buyer most of us would be called to work at the mine once again. We have not been paid from November and life has been difficult since that day as I have children who need food, clothes and school fees, said Matsela. He said most of the days he meets with his colleagues to counsel each other as they are also struggling to secure employment. Matsela said he felt insulted when Lebohang came to give them retrenchment letters that did not show how much they were entitled to get as provident fund or pension for the years that they have working at the mine. Around 600 mineworkers were laid off. Matsela said he used to earn R9200.00 which was not enough to meet all his domestic needs but it was better than nothing. Among those that depend on Matsela is a 59-year-old mother and 88-year-old grandmother and his children who all look up to him.Mapolo Morake (40) said she worked as an assistant miner and had many people depending on her for their livelihood. She said her life was very difficult and wished that the government could help them. Alina Zokofa (39) said her life became worse after being laid off from work as she had no money to support her two children. She said her problems were exacerbated by the fact that she was not registered at the labour department for Unemployment Insurance Fund. National Union of Mineworkers spokesman Lucas Tshiloane said there were a lot of problems at Lace Diamond Mine but they were seeking solutions for their members.