Famous quotes form Oliver Tambo" The A.N.C. is a national movement. We all - Communists and non-Communists alike - want a nonracial, democratic, united South Africa."" The fight for freedom must go on until it is won; until our country is free and happy and peaceful as part of the community of man, we cannot rest."" Racial discrimination, South Africa's economic power, its oppression and exploitation of all the black peoples, are part and parcel of the same thing." Below the majestic Ngele Mountains that stretch all the way to KwaZulu-Natal, is the peaceful and quiet village of Nkantolo, West of Bizana in the Eastern Cape, This is where Oliver Reginald Tambo was born, grew up and attended school. Attractions at his village include the Oliver Tambo Garden of Remembrance which is situated near a hill and supervises the village. It used to host the home where Tambo was born on 27 October 1917. After his birth, Oliver was baptised Kaizana, after Kaizer Wilhelm of Germany, whose forces fought the British during World War 1. Historians say this was his father, Mzimeni s way of showing opposition to the British colonisation of Pondoland in 1878.On the other side of the Garden of Remembrance, a few kilometres from the Tambo homestead is the road leading to Mbhobheni School, one of the first schools he attended in his days as a child. Oliver Tambo led the African National Congress (ANC) through its darkest days and became its longest serving leader in countries like London and Zambia where the party operated until it was unbanned in South Africa in 1990. Tambo s ability to keep the ANC together in London and later in Lusaka is probably the reason he is known the world over. But to the village of Nkantolo and to his remaining family members there, he was and remains more than just a hero and a liberation stalwart. To them, he was a son, father, grandfather and a local hero who had put the Nkantolo and the greater town of Binaza on the map. Tambo himself would have been 100 years old this year had he lived. He died in April 1993, just a year before South Africa could hold its first democratic elections.It s perhaps for this reason that on the occasion of his centenary, government saw it fit to declare 2017 as The year of Oliver Tambo . Some have asked why the government would honour Tambo in this way so much to dedicate the whole year to an individual s memory. Not even Nelson Mandela had been honoured in this fashion. Although Tambo never made it into government like Mandela and others had, South Africa would probably not have a constitutional government without the sacrifices made by Tambo and others who fled the country to keep the fight for liberation going abroad. While Mandela and others were kept in prison, Tambo led the call for their release and for South Africa to end apartheid. Back in Nkantolo, his family and fellow villagers suffered under the abusive system of apartheid which condemned them to poverty and underdevelopment. Today his nephew Mzukisi Tambo and his brothers are working very hard to preserve the icon s legacy. They make a living through livestock farming and managing heritage sites such as the Tambo Garden of Remembrance that honour their late uncle. We are told that whenever he came around before he fled the country from Johannesburg - that is the room he used. In recent years, it was not in a good condition and as such government came here and when they were renovating the whole house, they renovated that flat as well, says Mzukisi Tambo.The Ludeke Methodist church is situated about 15 kilometres from the Tambo homestead and is regarded as a great historic building by the locals with Nelson Mandela and Winnie having also tied the knot in the same church.Also, nearby is Mbhobheni School, one of the first schools young Tambo attended. The ruins of the old classrooms have long settled into the earth and a more proper structure is now being used. But it cannot be said that at this stage the young Tambo was aware of the political situation of his people inflicted upon them by the Europeans. At the age of 16, while on holiday in Kantolo, Tambo and some friends formed the Bizana Students Association (BSA). He was elected secretary of the organisation. Although this was probably the early indication of his leadership qualities. Many historians say it was at university and later when he joined the African National Congress Youth League that Tambo became radicalised. His upbringing in Nkantolo and the various schools he attended would have shaped his political life but it definitely did not influence it. Tambo initially wanted to study medicine, but at the time, no tertiary medical school accepted Black students in that field. He opted to study the sciences at the then-named College of Fort Hare. It was here that he would meet his lifelong friend and comrade Mandela. In 1942, he was unanimously elected chairperson of the Students' Committee of his residence, Beda Hall. After three years, Tambo graduated with a B.Sc. degree in Mathematics and Physics from Fort Hare. He then enrolled for a diploma in higher education. He was expelled at Fort Hare due to his political activities on campus and later set off to Johannesburg where he met Walter Sisulu and Nelson Mandela. Professor Luvuyo Wotshela, Director of the National Heritage and Cultural Studies Centre at Fort Hare says although Fort Hare may not have been Tambo s launch pad for his radicalism, the university did shape his radical thinking and political activism. It was at this university where he was exposed to different young leaders from across the continent who were thinking the same as him. It was also at Fort Hare where Tambo began to organise student marches and this really influenced his future which was the joining of the ANC Youth League, he tells SAnews. He was a very young man when he arrived at Fort Hare full of ideas and rubbed shoulders with key young people who influenced him and shaped him for what could later be his role in the ANC and the struggle for liberation, said Wotshela. Although Tambo left South Africa for exile in 1960, his presence was felt in the country throughout his exile years as he built the ANC from outside ensuring it was strong and ready when the time to govern arrived. Recently, President Jacob Zuma launched the Mbizana Rural Enterprise Development RED Hub in honour of Tambo s legacy. Government says the hub, as one of its efforts to stimulate growth through agriculture and agro-processing, will alleviate poverty and address low levels of development in the district. The development is also expected to stimulate local economic development as well as the investment drive to expand beyond agriculture and traditional subsistence farming. Farmers in Bizana will now be able to move from subsistence to commercial farming. - SA news and Dumelang Media