President Jacob Zuma launched the Maluti-A-Phofung Special Economic Zone (MAP-SEZ) in Harrismith on Tuesday. The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) links Kwazulu-Natal, Free State and Gauteng province and 25 000 people in Harrismith were going to be employed. Cargo from Durban to Johannesburg would be offloaded in Harrismith and later taken from Harrismith to Johannesburg from the Free State, so as to avoid many accidents which are caused by fatigue. SEZ was initiated by the Free State government and the national government bought into it as it would create opportunities for manufacturing which would create regional and international trade, also adding value in Harrismith. It is my pleasure to declare Maluti-a-Phofung Special Economic Zone project officially opened. To local and international investors; we declare to you today that this facility called the Maluti-a-Phofung SEZ is open for business. This launch is significant in many ways. It is for the very first time that government develops a SEZ in an area that was once part of the apartheid era, Bantustan Industrial parks. These industrial parks were introduced not so much because of economic potential, but merely to sustain the apartheid system of separate development. They wanted to keep black people far away from the city centres which had to be packed for white people with black people coming to supply labour only, said President Jacob Zuma in his keynote address on Tuesday. He thanked Premier Ace Magashule for initiating Maluti-A-Phofung Special Economic Zone as many government agencies would provide critical services to the local communities. Zuma urged people around Harrismith to take care of the newly launched facilities. Look after them and protect them from destruction and improve them. Future generations do not have to start from scratch, but must find that this generation has invested in their dreams. Through the SEZ programme South Africa also continues to play an important role in the attraction of foreign and domestic direct investment into the economy. To date eight special economic zones including the opened industrial zones have been designated across the country, he said. Zuma said economic zones in Coega and East London IDZ in Eastern Cape, Dube Tradeport, OR Tambo IDZ, Saldanha Bay IDZ in Western Cape, Maluti-A-Phofung IDZ and Musina-Makhado in Limpopo were already changing the lives of the people. He said the government realised that there were a lot of spin-offs which could be derived for creating the economic Zone in Harrismith. R1 billion has been invested at the zone and it is expected that more billions would be made at the zone, which would benefit the community directly and indirectly. Minister of Trade and industry Dr. Rob Davies said he had learned valuable lessons from other countries in developing the economy by creating industries that would reduce poverty and unemployment. Premier Ace Magashule said it was exciting that special economic zone had been established in the province, which will mitigate in reducing unemployment and poverty. He said President Zuma has been supportive when the province initiated the projects that would help alleviate poverty in the communities and declared his support for him at the launch. It was only during the time of president Zuma that we took the economy in our own hands and we will never be apologetic for that. We want to tell you that our province is behind you and we will forever remain loyal to you by changing the lives of our people who are still living in poverty, said Magashule.