President Jacob Zuma has made changes to the National Executive in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness. The changes bring some younger MPs and women into the National Executive in order to benefit from their energy, experience and expertise. I have directed the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers to work tirelessly with their colleagues to bring about radical socio-economic transformation and to ensure that the promise of a better life for the poor and the working class becomes a reality, the President said in a statement in the early hours of Friday morning. The changes are as follows; Ministers Minister of Energy, Mmamoloko Nkhensani Kubayi Minister of Transport, Joe Maswanganyi Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba Minister of Police, Fikile Mbalula Minister of Public Works, Nathi Nhleko, Minister of Sports and Recreation, Thembelani Nxesi Minister of Tourism, Tokozile Xasa Minister of Public Service and Administration, Faith Muthambi Minister of Home Affairs, Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize Minister of Communications, Ayanda Dlodlo Deputy Ministers Deputy Minister of Public Service and Administration, Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba Deputy Minister of Finance, Sifiso Buthelezi Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises, Ben Martins Deputy Minister of Arts and Culture, Maggie Sotyu Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Gratitude Magwanishe Deputy Minister of Communications, Thandi Mahambehlala, Deputy Minister of Tourism, Elizabeth Thabethe Deputy Minister of Police, Bongani Mkongi Deputy Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams Deputy Minister of Small Business Development, Nobathembu November. I wish to extend my gratitude to the outgoing Ministers and Deputy Ministers for their service to the country. I also wish the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers the best in their new responsibilities, the President said. The much anticipated cabinet reshuffle trended on twitter hours before the official announcement. However, the proverbial cat was out the bag when during the burial of Apartheid struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada, one speaker said Gordhan had done a great job in emulating Uncle Kathy with his integrity and said he would still supported whether he was no longer a minister in the coming days or weeks. President Jacob Zuma ignored the bubbling rebellion from his ministers who were rumoured to have threatened to resign enmasse if he dared fire Gordhan. Political Analysts had a field day analysing the state of mind of the president. But some people might not have been surprised about the so called purge, because they had stuck their necks out during the NEC meetings, where it was reported that Aaron Motsoaledi, David Hanekom and others proposed the recall of Zuma. Economic Freedom fighters Leader Julius Malema had earlier on Thursday approached the Constitutional Court to ask it to order the Speaker of the National Assembly, Baleka Mbete to impeach Zuma. Draft resolution, that the House resolves, in terms of section 102 (2) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, that it has no confidence in Mr. Jacob G Zuma as president of the Republic of South Africa on the grounds that; he continues to make irrational, irresponsible and reckless decisions. The decision to remove Mr. Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance is only made to allow the Guptas to capture the state coffers and national treasury, said Malema. DA Leader asked South africans to stop Zuma from ruining and bankrupting the country with his controversial decisions. The greatest omission from the list of new minister was probably that of Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma who was widely speculated to take over from Faith Muthambi as the new Communications Minister. Ayanda Dlodlo has been appointed to the position. Eyes will be on the move the SACP will take next after they came out to criticise and reject the Cabinet reshuffle on Wednesday morning. It will be an interesting week ahead, as opposition parties are bound to hold press conferences to air their views but one thing is for sure President Zuma has played his hand and prevailed once more. In 2016 it was alleged that the Gupta brothers through their Oakbay investment group were lobbying influential leaders to buy a stake in the Ubank (Former Teba Bank). Many people will be looking at these developments whether newly appointed Minister Malusi Gigaba would approve the signing of the contract to enable the well connected brothers to have their own bank after four big banks shut down their accounts.