BLOEMFONTEIN - Thousands of students are holding their breathe in fear as they stand on the threshold of losing an academic year due to the ongoing Fees Must Fall protests. Protests at the two institutions of higher learning in Bloemfontein, University of the Free State (UFS) as well as the Central University of Technology (CUT), over the past week have led to classes being suspended to next week as authorities seek to protect property. According to management of several universities, if the protests spill into next week, they have no option but to call off the 2016 academic year. Last efforts are underway as management and students representatives seek to reach an agreement that will see studies resuming.Yesterday, UFS extended the suspension of the academic year to 28 October for all undergraduate and honours students. Only staff and students doing masters were allowed to stay on campus. Across town, CUT has suspended classes until Monday 17 October following a meeting between students and the university management on Wednesday 12 October. Academic activities which include lectures and assessments that were postponed will continue on Monday, 17 October 2016. A revised academic programme of academic activities to compensate for lost time will be communicated soon, said Dan Maritz, CUT Spokesperson. In another twist of events, N4 and N5 at Motheo TVET College in Bloemfontein were stopped from sitting for their exams by members of the SRC. The students were forced to march to CUT to support the Fees Must Fall protests that were being held there. Lindokuhle Ntuli, the SRC president for UFS, believes the government is to blame for the current mess that the students find themselves in. The blame for the impasse that we find ourselves in, lies squarely on government. The call for free university education started last year and government should have started then to put measures in place to see this happening. As students from UFS, we will continue to protest until the government commits itself to fulfilling our demands, said Ntuli. Meanwhile, students who spoke to Dumelang News lamented the fact that they might have to repeat their current academic year in 2017. Kgomotso Kontle (28), a student at CUT at the Bloemfontein campus, said that she just wanted to finish her post graduate Certificate in Education. Left with only two months, a frustrated Kontle said she could not afford to pay for another year of study, should the institution decide to discontinue academic activities this year. While Kontle pleaded her case at the CUT main gate, a group of students chanted struggle songs, a few strides from the institution. On a national scale, several universities remain closed as the #Feesmustfall protests continue unabated. At campuses such as Wits and UCT, several students were arrested this past week as they engaged in running battles with the police and university security officers.