At total of 80 hawkers from the Setsieng Complex which is located at the taxi rank in Phuthaditjhaba, Qwaqwa have received a boost for their business, thanks to Coca-Cola Beverages South Africa who donated 80 hawker trolleys. The donation came after the beneficiaries successfully completed their Grow My Business training session which was conducted earlier this year. This initiative was in collaboration with the Department of Economic Affairs, Small Business Tourism and Environmental Affairs (DESTEA) and Maluti-a-Phofung Local Municipality. According to Habofanoe Thakaso, project manager for the informal vending of Coca-Cola Beverages in South Africa, the donation was aimed at helping the hawkers in South Africa. We came to do this after having realised that those were our people who are out there, making a living with what they have. No one and no other company recognises them, so we saw it fit to come on board and help them. We want to help them become better people in future, he said. He said the donated trolley will help them to sell drinks in the area. We are going to help them with ice maker machines. We also going to give them special prices when they buy their stock, Thakaso said. According to Thakane it was not the first time that they embarked on this sort of initiative and were improving their efforts with each year. Maluti-a-Phofung Local Municipality and DESTEA came on board in 2016 by uplifting the community with tangible equipment that would complement their newly learned business skills from the Grow My Business programme. The first group of 24 women received their trolleys in 2016 and we have continued in this same spirit to award hawker trolleys to trainees for this year. This will further equip informal traders so they can have an opportunity to succeed in our competitive economic environment, Thakaso said.Tseko Mothamaha, director of SMMEs and Agriculture in Maluti-a-Phoung, said their aim was to get investors and to partner with them to help the small businesses. We are not in a position to help everyone in our municipality hence we have to find people who can help us so that we can help our people. We are happy with what Coca Cola has done for our people because this is going to create jobs and it alleviates poverty. We also have our youth involved in the programme. We have requested them to also do this in Harrismith and Kestell, Mothamaha said. One of the beneficiaries, Mahlalele Motaung (52) who sells snacks, apples and other goodies at the busy taxi rank, said she was happy with the donation and added that will increase her income per day. I am making a living out of this money. I have to children that I am looking after. My husband died a few years ago so I am the one who has to work for the family, said the single mother.