Leaders from the African National Congress have slammed the disruptive behaviour shown by the workers at the Workers Day celebration at Lochlogan Park in Bloemfontein on Monday. All leaders did not mince their words in berating the embarrassing behaviour exhibited by a group of rowdy workers who called for President Jacob Zuma to go. The workers as pushed everyone on their way to force the celebrations to be aborted just a few minutes the programme had started. They sang and pushed the marshals to make their point taken into consideration. Security Guards for the president made a circle around Zuma and ordering photographers to move away from taking pictures as it turned out the situation was becoming dangerous for the president. Zuma was whisked away in his motorcade after Cosatu and other alliance partners decided that it was no longer conducive for the leaders to address the masses who came in numbers for the celebrations. Zuma had sat next to Blade Ndzimande and Sidumo Dlamini unperturbed by the heckling and booing but eventually left the place after it was made clear that speeches were no longer going to be made.Provincial ANC secretary William Bulwane said it was sad that the rally had to be cancelled off because some people did not want to be addressed by the president. We did not expect any disruption at the May Day celebrations because we believed the leaders would control the workers. We then decided not to continue with the speeches, said Bulwane. Mangaung Mayor and Women s league president in the province Olly Mlamleli said the municipality had provided venue for the workers but was shocked to see them behaving in that unruly manner. I saw a group of people causing chaos here but we came here as ANC women s league, ANC Youth league to support the workers in their struggle. We did not expect any chaotic behaviour but we are saying workers must continue fighting for their rights. Qina Msebenzi qina, said Mlamleli. Cosatu President Sidumo Dlamini said it was unfortunate that the Workers Day celebrations degenerated into mayhem after marching for two kilometres. He said it was a lost opportunity for workers to hear messages from the leaders. As we continue, we started with a vibrant march from Batho Location to the venue. Unfortunately because of the internal squabbles in the tripartite alliance the problems played themselves out here. This situation calls for us as leadership to deal with the matters urgently, said Dlamini. Dlamini was blamed by the workers for bringing Zuma to Mangaung yet Cosatu had pronounced their preference in the leadership, which they wanted to be addressed by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa whom they want to be the president of the country in 2019. South African Communist Party leader Blade Ndzimande said the entire leadership of the tripartite alliance must sit down as soon as possible to resolve the problems affecting the alliance. He said history would judge them harshly if they allowed the alliance to collapse. ANC spokesman in the Free State said ANC had good relations with its partners and heard that the rowdy workers were bussed in from Kimberley to cause disruption at the May Day celebrations.