LADYBRAND - Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) together with department of basic education are hard at work trying to address the challenge of poor youth participation in the electoral democracy across the country. The officials of two institutions have visited selected schools through the 5th annual School Democracy Week programme that was officially launched on the 24th of April and ended on the 30th of the same month. IEC representatives from Thabo Mofutsanyana region joined forces with the department of basic education to pay an attention to fluent call and visited 15 schools. We had four hundred and eight learners participating in our activities in different local municipalities.This is a yearly national programme that takes place at all the provinces. In our municipality, we targeted the learners from Grade 10 to 12 (FET phase) and they are impressive participants. We managed to register 126 on our new voters on the voters roll," explained IEC Thabo Mofutsanyana's Outreach and Training Officer Themba Pungwayo. The articulate learners at Sehlabeng High School in Ladybrand were one of many who eagerly partook in this year's public speaking competition dissecting the topic, How my vote as youth will bring a change in this democratic country. The fiercely contested event was won by Pulane Pitso, followed by Angie Sekete and Tshepiso Makgatha in the third position. The events were held at various local municipalities attended by relevant stakeholders such as the office of the mayors offices, Department of Home Affairs and Municipal Electoral Officers. All the speakers showed an understanding of the topic as they were more than prepared. Each participating school, responsible educators and the participating speakers received certificates of participation at the end of each launch, explained Pungwayo. IEC Thabo Mofutsanyana Regional Supervisor Simangele Sikhosana thanked Nketoane Local Municipality's Municipal Electoral Officer, Mokete Nhlapo for his donation of R2000 in prizes to be shared amongst the winners in the essay competition.