Minister of the Department of Public Service and Administration, Faith Muthambi, has promised the community of Matjhabeng municipality, in Welkom, to check on the municipality s progress in three months time to ensure efficient service delivery. She visited Welkom last Friday to check on the Katleho Hospital, Sassa, Phahamisang Primary School and the police station in Meloding in Virginia where she interacted with the community members and workers. Muthambi promised the community that her department would improve service delivery by working hand-in-hand with the community. Muthambi encouraged public servants in the correctional services, hospital and the police to be courteous to the public and work hard to serve the people. The Imbizo is part of the ongoing programme of taking government to the people through the community outreach initiatives. We engaged with the management of the Virginia Correctional facility and listened to concerns raised by patients at the hospital who were waiting to receive help. This is what Batho Pele is about putting people first. As a government, we belong to you, we care about you and we serve you. Every three months, we are going to come back to check the progress update on the issues raised, said Muthambi.She was accompanied by Premier Ace Magashule, Speaker of the Legislature, Mamiki Qabathe, and MEC for Police, Roads, and Transport, Sam Mashinini. Mashinini pledged that two satellite police stations in ward 7 and 9 would be opened so that crime and gangsterism could be nipped in the bud. One of the ex-convicts had pleaded with the minister to help in ending crime and gangsterism in Welkom. Muthambi has been criss-crossing the country visiting municipalities that needed serious attention such as Matjhabeng and Umhlabuyalingana. She said Imbizos were appropriate platforms for government to engage directly with citizens in order to assess service delivery needs and interventions. We will hold discussions with the provincial government and the local municipality to come up with mechanisms to address these shortcomings. We need to ensure that public servants have necessary tools and the equipment conducive to the environment to provide the community with better services. As much as government would like to provide you as the residents of Matjhabeng Local Municipality with efficient services, public servants will go a long way to improve the relationship between government and the community, she said. Muthambi said that government services should be accessible and that public servants provided appropriate and relevant information about the government services and opportunities in the municipality.