BLOEMFONTEIN - Former President of South Africa, Kgalema Motlanthe, says poor implementation of legislation, inequality, social cohesion and land distribution are some of the burning issues raised by residents of the Free State. Motlanthe was leading an independent high level panel which assesses key legislation passed by Parliament at Mangaung City Hall in Bloemfontein last week. During the public hearing, residents spoke of how legislation on land redistribution affected them. According to Motlanthe, the mandate of the panel is to investigate the impact of legislation on four areas namely; the triple challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality. This will be done with a view to identify laws that require strengthening, review or amending. Poverty, unemployment, inequality and lack of opportunities are issues that affect many people, Motlanthe said. Established by the Speakers Forum in January to assess the effectiveness of key legislation passed in the democratic dispensation, the panel is a structure of parliament and the provincial legislatures. Motlanthe said people do not only complain, they also make suggestions on how their concerns can best be addressed in terms of legislation. Presenting a report on growth, poverty and inequality in South Africa, Professor Olive Shisana, who is a panel member, said inequality remained a huge challenge as it had not improved between 2001 and 2011 and that the Eastern Cape had shown high levels of economic vulnerability .One of the panellists, former Minister, Bridgette Mabandla, said although social cohesion in the country is moving at a slow pace, progress has been made. The committee will submit a draft report to parliament on its recommendations by May next year and the final report will be expected around August. The 17-member panel also includes former Reserve Bank Governor, Tito Mboweni, Judge Navi Pillay and former Auditor General, Terence Nombembe. Another student, Kagisho Sebeela (26), said that students instigating protests were mostly those who do not qualify to write exams due to poor performance. Vandalising varsity property that is meant to empower us is not advancing the cause of the students at all, Sebeela argued.