The Free State department of police, roads and transport says inter provincial road blocks and the strong presence of law enforcers on the roads is contributing to the reduced accident rate this Easter Weekend. Since Wednesday, 12 April, a total of 87 people were arrested and charged for speeding on roads across the Free State. Three of them were detained for driving under the influence of alcohol. Kabelo Moloabi, traffic law enforcement spokesperson for the department of police, roads and Transport in the province, says the culprits were either detained or released on bail. One of the culprits is a 42-year-old-man who was arrested on Saturday morning on the N3 for travelling 218km per hour on a 120km speed zone with a BMW. He was charged at the Roadside Police Station at Vrede and was released on R7 000 bail. A 28-year-old truck driver travelling from Durban to Gauteng was arrested on Friday evening also on the R3 for driving 136km per hour in a 80km speed zone.Both suspects were charged at the Roadside Police Station at Vrede and they are both expected to appear separately on May 26 in the Vrede Magistrate s Court. The truck driver was also released on bail. Moloabi says traffic volumes are expected to start increasing today on roads in the Free State as most churchgoers will be returning home. Authorities are however ready and deployed across the province. Hillary Mophethe, the spokesperson for roads department, told the publication during the week the department has intensified policing on the roads to make sure road users don t transgress traffic laws. Last year more than 300 people died on the roads over Easter in the country. Sam Mashinini, the mec for police, roads and transport, urged road users traveling back back home from various Easter holidays' activities to be vigilant. "I hereby call upon South Africans driving through the Free State to please respect the rules of the road and wish to appreciate the co-operation of all road-users during this peak time so we are all safe," said Mashinini.