About 541 Springfontein Primary school children went home smiling after Public Servant Association donated school jerseys. The handover of school jersey was held on Monday at Sprinfontein Primary school in Springfontein based in Western Free State at Xhariep district. Liaison Officer for Public servant Association in Free State Jantjie Jack said; We are here as Public Servants Association to donate 541 school jerseys to Springfontein Primary school children. Springfontein is a very rural place and small town based at Xhariep district in western Free State. Many people at this place are not working and there no jobs said Jack.We as Public Servants Association we thought that we should come here and give back to the community, during this trying times we know that the economy of this country is very down and we had to give back to the community and to plough back to the community that is the reason we are here for. Public Servants Association (PSA) is a Union of government employees. What prompted me to come here plough back to this school is that Many years ago in 1986 I started my secondary schooling here because Sprinfontein Primary school was a secondary school by then, also completed my grade12 here, therefore it was always my desire to give back to the community where I have grown at and I know the plight of the people of this area. I approach the management of Public Servants Association and say to them what about if we can donate jerseys to the Springfontein Primary School and the PSA agreed said Jack.Jack further said that they also have social responsibility programme which caters for needy people, like Clinics, Cr ches, Churches and destitute children homes. The Principal of Springfontein Primary school Benny Mokgobo said; I am so excited about the donation of Jerseys from Public Servants Association. We deeply thank the Public Servants Association with this gesture today. We honoured with such gift. We are now approaching the season of winter and pupils are going to be warm said Mokgobo. This donation is to boost the morale of the pupil and that will contribute towards improving the results and performance. This Jerseys are going to change the lives of these pupils and is also going make a big difference to their lives said Mokgobo.