SIsi Ntombela, the MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs in the Free State says they will make sure that the complete and RDP house for a 104 years Jeminah Xaba of Ntha near Lindley within three months. She said that after the granny said I am very happy; I thought I would die before I get the house, Ntombela said it broke her heart to hear an old citizen talking like that. Remember these are our people who have fought for freedom. It would not be nice for her to die talking like that. We are going to build a house for her. There are some rocks at the site where we have to dig a foundation, so we are going to work on it and soon we will be giving her the keys, she said.All these happened at the Government Operation Hlasela programme that took place at the Lindley on Thursday. Ace Magashule and her team of MEC s and other government officials were in attendance were the visited few people who will get houses, a disability centre and a cr che. I want to thank the premier. I was not sleeping at night when I thought that one day I would die and leave my children and grandchildren in that small shack, Xaba said Xaba also received food parcels, night dress, blankets and morning shoes curtsey of the business people who accompanied the premier. Apparently, the granny lives in the shack with seven of her children and the grandchildren. According to Masethebe Xaba, a granddaughter no one is working in the farming and they were only depending on the granny s old age grant for living. I am overwhelmed, it s like Jesus has just passed here. At least my granny would finally go out of this shack, she said. Magashule said they came to Lindley to give people hope with the Operation Hlasela programmer. We don t just go to the big town. We also decided to come to the small areas like Lindley because those are also our people who have voted for us. I am happy that with our business people, we have managed to change the lives of few people during our programme. We going to build house for some of our old people because they have been loyal to our party, he said.