The Department of Water and Sanitation together with Bloem Water have considered pumping water from Gariep dam to Bloemfontein. In an effort to mitigate water shortage in Bloemfontein, the Department and the water entity would spent R7 billion for the water infrastructure. The water would be drawn from Gariep Dam to Brandkop reservoir. Another pipe would be installed from Lieuwkop dam to Brandkop reservoir at a cost of R425 million which is 33.6 kilometers from each other. The Bloem Water spokesperson Daniel Tlhomelang said there was too much drought before the rain season could begin. He said it was necessary that the project took place as it would create a lot of jobs for the people and poverty would be reduced. It is true that we would be drawing water from Gariep dam to Bloemfontein because it is where it is needed most. The project is quiet big as the water would go through the water pipes from the dam to Bloemfontein, Tlhomelang said. However Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Free State is opposing the move alleging that the exercise was too expensive to undertake arguing that there were cheaper ways of doing it. A council member from DA in the Mangaung Metro, Rossouw Botes, said water could be drawn from Caledon River and be pumped into Rustfontein and Knellpoort dams respectively. The Democratic Alliance is firmly opposed to the R7 billion water plan for Mangaung proposed by the national Department of Water and Bloem Water, the plan is extremely expensive and will fail to adequately supply water to Mangaung residents. Bloem Water and the Department of Water and Sanitation are planning to draw water from Gariep dam to Brandkop Reservoir. Doing so, would require the installation of four additional pumps that would still struggle to plug the water supply shortfall in Mangaung despite the enormous cost, Botes said.He said the money could have been used to buy three faze electric cables and pump to pump water to Bloemfontein residents and it could be cheaper. Mangaung Metro Spokesperson Qondile Khedama said he did not want to comment on the matter but that water should be made accessible to the people as richer people were the ones benefiting from this scarce resource. This week President Jacob Zuma noted that leaders of the world needed to work hard to ensure that there was water for everyone at the World water day and the launch of 2017 world water development report. This key report is aimed at drawing attention to the current dismal global status of water and sanitation and to inspire commitment to an urgent "Call for Action" by world leaders to ensure the availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. The bleak global picture presented in the 2017 World Water Development Report requires world leaders to urgently prioritise the improvement of access to essential water and sanitation services, Zuma said. He said that 147 countries have met the SDG drinking water target and that 95 countries have met the sanitation target and only seventy seven countries have met both. Zuma said the statistics did not do justice in conveying the development and health challenges faced by many people.