The department of education in the Free State continues to change the lives of the pupils who attend farm schools in the province by building the school hostels. The official opening of the Ventersburg Intermediate school hostel facilities was held on Friday at Ventersburg Intermediate School in Ventersburg in Free State. The aims of building school hostels is to stop transportation of pupil to school especially those who are on the farms and travels long distance to schools because their transport is not reliable and it is a danger to the lives of the school children. Education MEC in the Free State province Tate Makgoe said; Today we are opening the farm school hostel. I am very happy because this hostel is the number 35 hostel build in the Free State. We spent the amount of R15Million to make sure that pupils from the farms must not come to school at 4 am in morning just because the travels long distances. It is painful for pupils to walk long distances to school and end been the victims of rapes or abuses. We have resorted to the issue of building hostels to protect our pupils said Makgoe.What makes us happy is that when you look at the results of the grade 12 last year especially to children who are using hotels is shown that those schools performed very well. It means that hotels does not only help in security it also helps children to perform in school, because they woke up in morning eat breakfast and study eat lunch and study eat super so that they can sleep under the protection of the department of education. We intend to stop pupil s transport because this transport kills our children and focusing on building hostels at our schools especially the farm school where children travels long distance to school said Makgoe. The Principal of Ventersburg Intermediate school Mahlomola Mokhemisa said; The launch of this hostel is going to help pupils who travels long distance to school. Because they had a challenge of coming late at school every day and they miss some of the periods. Therefore we would like to thank the department of education for building us a hostel said Mokhemisa. This hostel is going to help our children to improve their results. The new hostel is going to accommodate 157 pupils and 100% of these children are coming from the farm and the travel long distance to school said Mokhemisa.