The Office of the Premier will spend a large chunk of its 2017/18 budget vote on education and compensation of employees. Tabling his budget vote on Thursday, 23 March, at the Free State Legislature, Premier Ace Magashule said his office will inject R249.922 million to roll out the provincial bursary scheme for the development and acquisition of rare skills. Magashule s department was recently allocated R564.980 million by the Free State MEC for treasury Elzabe Rockman during the provincial budget speech. Of this amount R260.334 million is appropriated for compensation of employees.Magashule encouraged 20 students who are currently studying Information Communication Technology (ICT) in Madeira, Portugal, to establish companies and become creators of markets and not job seekers. We are confident that these graduates will use the skills they have to assist us to have better systems and processes, which will ultimately assist with service delivery, he said. The premier said his department will continue prioritising bursaries to clamp out poverty and empower aspiring professionals through education.Currently the provincial government has subsidised more than 200 students with international bursaries. About R86 million is appropriated for the provincial communication programmes to intensify relations between state and constituents. According to the premier as from April 2017, the provincial government will be printing a 100 000 copies of the Provincial Government Newspaper, Hlasela News, for distribution to households across the province. Magashule said government will aggressively intensify communication on various platforms to inform people about government services and empower people to be active citizens. As a coordinating department, Magashule said his office has set aside R45.606 million for its coordinated activities, including improving audit outcomes in departments and municipalities. Monitoring and evaluation services was allocated R117,541 million, whilst goods and services will receive R51.285 million. Members of opposition parties however slated Magashule for injecting more funds into communication programmes and discouraged the premier from spending money on non-core items.