BLOEMFONTEIN - The Free State Sport Science Institute (FSSSI) is at the pinnacle of the sport development continuum, Free State Sport, Arts and Culture and Recreation MEC Mathabo Leeto stated. She said the institute provides high performance services to elite athletes on a national, provincial and local level. We pride ourselves to have developed this world class public facility which has been earmarked to become the National Training Centre of South Africa, said Leeto. In the previous financial year, the department spent R5,9 million assisting 15 sport federations and 309 full time high performance athletes as part of its Elite Athlete and Coaching Support Program. The department furthermore rendered 6,707 high performance sport science services to the value of R12,6 million as part of governments continued support to enhance the performance of our top athletes. Over 490 coaches from the 15 Sport Federations were trained on Sport Science for Coaches Programme. The department also hosted an International Karate workshop in 2016 to improve our Karate coaches knowledge and skills. The Cheetahs, VKB Knights and Crinums became the national champions in their respective sport codes in 2016/17. Forty nine athletes trained at the institution representing various South African national sport teams at international championships such as athletics, basketball, cycling to mention but a few. We decided to reinstate the Free State Academy of Sport that previously formed part of the Free State Sport Confederation. For the new financial year, the Department in collaboration with the newly reinstated Free State Academy of Sport will roll-out the Sport Science Fitness Programme to 50 schools, added Leeto. To improve the delivery of sport science services the department will roll out an onsite Sport Science Workstation that will enable stakeholders registered on the Sport Science Support Network with direct access to request high performance service from the Institute. according to MEC Leeto, to realise the above programme a total budget of R15,2 million has been allocated to the FSSSI for the 2017/2018 financial year.