BLOEMFONTEIN - A joint operation by various police units in the Parkweg Cluster netted over 200 people for various crimes during the just-ended MACUFE festival week. The Parkweg Cluster is comprised of law-enforcement agencies that include Mangaung Municipality Traffic, Mangaung Municipality law enforcement, SAPS officers and officials from the Home Affairs department.Acting Parkweg Cluster Commander, Brigadier Khothatso Ramokotjo, applauded the good work and said high police visibility was the order of the day over the week with the aim of reducing crime in identified areas within the cluster. He emphasized that it is through zest and determination shown by members for working tirelessly throughout the week. A number of crime prevention activities were carried out since the commencement of the Macufe activities from 30 September 2016 to 10 October 2016. These activities included roving roadblocks, stop and searches, raiding of hot-spots, monitoring situations at all Macufe event venues to ensure safety of residents and the Macufe patrons. A total of 251 people were arrested during the operation, 152 of these being for alcohol-related offences such as drinking in public and disorderly conduct, 15 for drunken driving, 20 for possession of dangerous weapons, 18 for possession of suspected stolen properties, 16 for shoplifting while 30 were arrested for dagga and dealing in drugs. Other arrests were for variety of offences ranging from theft, house breaking, robberies, assaults, pickpocketing, rape and illegal immigrants. In traffic-related offences, a total of 500 vehicles were stopped and searched 28 traffic fines were issued for unroadworthy vehicles, driving without permits, driving without licences and other such traffic violations. In another incident, three suspected pickpocketing syndicate members were arrested with six stolen cell phones during the Macufe Jazz event. Two men are from Welkom and the other is believed to be from Gauteng.Information is that they always target big events and steal from people who are enjoying themselves at the events. The trio were also on the wanted list for serious previous cases ranging from murder, attempted murder and robberies. One of the three suspects has 38 cases pending against him. All the arrested suspects will be appearing the Bloemfontein magistrate court today to face.