The Free State department of education launched a Chess League for primary schools in the Free State to promote chess in schools on Thursday, 4 May. About 3000 Chess sets will be delivered to 729 primary schools across the province. The deputy director general of education of the department Khoarai Khoarai said one school will at least have two to three chess sets. Targeting learners in the foundation phase, Mec for education Tate Makgoe says the game helps learners to take initiative, be more creative and solve problems. Chess develops and enhances mental capacity and in turn this will improve their performance in the classrooms Makgoe said. Learners from more than 10 schools attended the launch of the league was at Kamohelo Primary School in Bloemfontein. Khoarai told leaners Chess improves better decision making and also increases concentration levels. Each learner is expected to take part. Piloting the league at primary school level, the department said the programme will be rolled out in high schools at a later stage. One of the league s coaches, Steve Botsane, the chairperson of Chess Ambassador, encouraged learners to master the game and participate in local and international chess tournaments. Botsane implored donors to sponsor 11 year old Kabetswe Ndzeku, a grade 6 learner from Matla Primary School in Mangaung Township. Ndzeku clinched the second position at the 2016 South African Chess Champions. Residing in Phase 6, Ndzeku s family struggles to raise enough transport money to get Ndzeku to tournaments. She plays a highly tactile game for her age, lets nurture her talent, Botsane said. Botsane mentioned the establishment of the Greater Mangaung Chess Club which will focus of harnessing talent to compete in both national and international platforms. Botsane said learners will be given a chance to show case their skills through chess activities. Learners will demonstrate their impressive skills through various chess activities, such as playing chess using computers, bigger pieces demonstration and mask man, he said.