Tripartite alliance leaders will descend upon Bloemfontein on Monday for the Workers day celebrations at the founding home of the African National Congress. Bloemfontein has played a significant role in the history of this country in emancipating the people and giving them opportunities. President Jacob Zuma, SACP leader Blade Nzimande and Cosatu s Sidumo Dlamini will address the masses on their day, which is known in the world as May Day. Workers from all walks of life will be celebrating Workers day all over South Africa but the main event will be at Lochlogan waterfront in Bloemfontein. The event comes after South Africa was downgraded by two rating agencies Standard &amp; Poors and Fitch to sub-investment rating, commonly known as junk status. This means that workers face challenges that their security of work and getting good pensions after retiring are not guaranteed because of the bad economic climate. More than 27% of the people in South Africa are unemployed according to Stats-South Africa, especially youth and women. Cosatu President Sidumo Dlamini said the socio-economic environment was constrained and that they were working hard to ensure that there was unity among the workers. He said his organisation was fighting against labour brokering and casuallisation of workers and use of robots for workers. Dlamini said the most affected workers were farm workers, miners and those who were working in the retail sector. The working class will be celebrating workers day knowing well that there is economic constraints and that there is inequality which needs to change. The wage of the workers has been declining especially in the agriculture sector, mining sector and retailing sector. Last year we reached a national minimum wage across all sectors so that we could reduce inequality, said Dlamini in an exclusive interview with Dumelang News. He said the workers were brazen in exploiting workers in Johannesburg and other parts of the country because they realised that there were low working opportunities. Dlamini said the newly established workers party SAFTU did not bother them as it has been in existence for the past four years. SAFTU has the right to be there and we are not going to worry about them but we should focus on growing Cosatu. We don t want to spent time analysing them. SAFTU took clauses of our constitution and also said that they were going to form a political party, he said. He said the recent downgrades by S&amp;P and Fitch were going to hit hard on the workers and the poor. Dlamini said it was suspicious that the downgrades came after President Jacob Zuma reshuffled the cabinet yet he had reshuffled cabinet before but there were no downgrades. He said external forces wanted regime change. The spokesman of SACP Alex Mashilo said workers should be united despite the challenges that they are facing. He said the enemy of the poor people was unemployment, inequality and corruption which were caused by a cabal in the government. We need to fight corruption. Our unity could be hijacked by a few parasites. Downgrades by rating agencies were given to South Africa on a silver platter. We were not consulted when there was cabinet reshuffling yet we are tripartite alliance partners. We are not voting machinery of ANC but we will not contest elections alone. We will pronounce our presidential candidate preference in due course, said Mashilo. He said Radical Economic Transformation should benefit the people not Gupta family which seems to have undue influence on the president. At the launch of Maluti-A-Phofung Special economic Zone in Harrismith, President Jacob Zuma said farmers would be helped and that families would benefit as more than 25 000 people would be employed. He said ANC and government were committed to pursue and implement Radical Economic Transformation. R1 billion has been invested in the project.