Executive mayor of the Dihlabeng local municipality, Lindiwe Makhalema got herself a silver medal for finishing the 5 km of the Bethlehem Sol Plaatje Memorial marathon which was held at the Bethlehem Show Ground on the Workers Day. Makhalema had joined a number of athletes who took part in the inaugural marathon that attracted a number of runners from across the country. There were four categories that were contested. But the 42 km race was the big race of the day. The marathon was organised by Sam Motaung Foundation and it was sponsored by Maluti-a-Phofung local municipality, Dihlabeng, Bethlehem Hochland Auto and many others. Thabo Motaung from Gauteng province was the winner of the men 41 km race with Angelina Molaba from Mpumalanga province winning the female race. Motaung clocked 2h38min leaving Jabulani Nhlapo and Abraham Moloi second and third respectively. The winners walked home with R4 000 each. Maureen Dladla and Salome Huysken finished second and third as Molaba scoped the first prize clocking 3h15 min. Motaung said he was happy that he had managed to test himself against the best runners in the Free State. He said he only came to the race to prepare of the Mandela Marathon which will be staged in August. I am happy to win the race. It was very tough. We were mostly running on a flat surface and one has to keep the legs high at all times. Nhlapo gave me a real test because I had to come after him until I outrun him with only 800 meters remaining, he said.He said Nhlapo was very strong on the hills but he could not match his pace towards the finishing lane. I am very proud and the fact that I finished the race on the time I have set for myself makes me happy, he said. Makhalema said she was happy to take part in the race and added that it was breath taking. Taking part in the race just revived my childhood background because I have always been involved in sports. I played karate and ladies soccer. However, today was a best experience ever as that promoted unity and social cohesion within the municipality, she said. The executive mayor said she was happy that the marathon was an initiative that came from a community member. We are happy to see people from the community doing this. We will always make sure that we support them, she said. Motaung who hails from Bohlokong said the marathon was aimed at commemorating the life of the Cosatu members who died at the Sol Plaatje dam in 2003 on their road to Charles Mopeli in Qwaqwa to celebrate the Workers Day. It came in my spirit that we needed to honour those people because they were comrade. I did it with a marathon because it is one of the sporting codes that unite all people without political issues, he said. Motaung said they would make sure that they host a big and better marathon in the next years. I want to thank all the sponsors who came on board at the time we needed them the most, Motaung concluded.