There was widespread uncertainty about travelling to far places by buses as the bus strike started on Wednesday, in Gauteng. Many people rely on buses to reach their destinations during the Easter weekend by visiting Moria in Limpopo and other places of worship in the country. However Greyhound and MyCiti bus companies took a knock when the drivers embarked on a strike by refusing to go to work over meagre salaries. The bus drivers have rejected 9% wage increase which had been proposed by the employers.Labour unions and employer organisations in the passenger bus sector have failed to find common ground in meetings at the Bargaining Council in Johannesburg. Thousands of commuters have been left stranded after transport workers downed tools countrywide over wages and what they claim to be poor working conditions. NUMSA's acting spokesperson, Phakamile Hlubi says: "The employer responded by giving us an insulting offer of 9% as a wage increase, and marginal changes in the working conditions. And therefore we feel that it is important for us to intensify the strike and ensure that our members are able to receive the dignity that they deserve. The strike will continue indefinitely until the employer decides to come back with the offer which we can take back to our members which they can find satisfactory." But in Bloemfontein, Botshabelo and Thaba-Nchu, commuters travelled to their destinations without any hiccups on Wednesday. Most of the passengers said they heard on the radio that drivers of buses in Johannesburg and Pretoria would down tools on Wednesday, demanding higher wages but that Interstate buses were not mentioned. Mmusi Seleso (33) who is a Private in the South African National Defence Force uses buses to travel from Thaba-Nchu to Bloemfontein where he works as a soldier. Seleso said when he heard about the strike he was worried that he might not make it on time to work. He said his friend and colleague had sent him a message from Interstate that there was going to be a strike but was relieved this morning when he bought the ticket without being advised of any glitch. Seleso, like many other passengers, waited for the bus to arrive and took them to their different destinations. Dumelang News reporter saw buses arriving to drop off passengers at the bus terminal and picking other passengers to their destinations without any evident issues. One of the drivers who spoke to Dumelang News said they were not striking and were transporting people to their different destinations. Meanwhile there were reports that people in Johannesburg and Pretoria queued for a long time at the taxi ranks so that they could go to work. Hundreds of South Africans usually use buses to go to various religious events across the country and to visit their loved ones. Talks between bus companies and unions including National Union of Metal Workers of South Africa (Numsa) and South African Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu) are deadlocked. Satawu wants a 12% salary increase but employers are offering 7.5%, while Numsa is demanding a 15% wage hike. The unions say their members will not return to their posts until their demands are met.