The office of the Status of Older Persons from the Free State government celebrated a 100th birthday with local resident, Mapitso Molaoa. Family members, grandchildren, great grandchildren and friends gathered in Thaba Nchu, Zone 2, at her house to celebrate with the new centenarians. Speaking on her secret to longevity, she said: "I eat a lot of vegetables that keeps me going. I am still strong because I can clean the house and I can dance. I use dancing as part of my training. Discipline is key in playing a pivotal role to reach greater heights in life."She advised youth to respect God and elders, to focus on education and attend church. Her granddaughter, Maggie, said they are blessed to have a grandmother who was a hard worker. "She is still strict but we are still learning a lot from her. She loves to see the family happy. She ensures that we get everything we want. Although life is not a bed of roses, she manages to give us the best care, said Maggie. The office donated a blanket, birthday cake, house cleaning utensils and food parcels to the birthday girl. Provincial coordinator, Refilwe Masamane, said to ensure that Molaoa was acknowledged and recognised like many other centenarians who they celebrated, the family wrote to the Premier requesting recognition for milestone. "We continue to celebrate centenarians as part of our democratic dispensation and affirming our commitment to the implementation of the Older Persons Act no 13 of 2006 and the Declaration of the Rights Of Older Persons, said Masamane.He added: "Reaching 100 years and beyond marks a historic achievement which should be celebrated and acknowledged without a doubt. These are some of the few older persons who have defied all odds and achieved beyond the age of 100 years. Masamane pointed out that this year, 'The year of OR Tambo', they honour an activist and a volunteer whose participation in the people s struggle was not motivated by the desire for personal enrichment, but for the good of the people.