BLOEMFONTEIN - MEC for Police, Roads and Transport, Sam Mashinini, said there will be a strong police presence on the roads in the province to ensure that people were kept safe from harm this coming Easter weekend. Mashinini, in an exclusive interview with Dumelang News, said police officers were going to be tough on perpetrators and would not tolerate any criminal activities. He said motorists who would be using the roads in the Free State would have to take breaks so that they could avoid fatigue. Mashinini said he was looking forward to a zero death rate in the province because life was too important to be lost on the roads.He said road blocks would be put up on the major roads in the province and in towns to ensure that no one drove while under the influence of alcohol. We have arrived at the Easter holiday period whereby families would be visiting their family members from different provinces. We plead with you to check the tyres, brakes and lights of the car so that when you re on the road your vehicle is roadworthy. Observe the rules of the road and don t drink and drive, said Mashinini. He pleaded with motorists to take periodical rests and should not using alcohol at all costs. Mashinini said everyone who is in the vehicle which has safety belts should fasten the seatbelts and it should not only be the driver. We should have an accident free province. We are not happy with the loss of life; actually we are saddened by death on the roads. If you don t observe the rules of road you will spent your Easter holidays in the holding cells, he said. He said truck and taxi drivers should be patient so that they do not cause the accidents as a result of speeding.Meanwhile, A man was critically injured last night after a bakkie collided with a truck on Curie Avenue in Bloemfontein while travelling at high speed. It was alleged that the driver tried to avoid a tortoise which was crossing the road. The bakkie was travelling towards the direction of the town when it suddenly crossed to the oncoming traffic and hid the truck on the back wheels, said an eyewitness. Witness said the impact of the bakkie was so strong that the truck over turned and landed on its side and leaving the driver of the truck with injuries.MEC Sam Mashinini encourages motorists to drive safely on the roads in order to avoid accidents over the Easter weekend.