The troubled Mafube Local Municipality has been put under provincial administration after failing to meet its obligations. MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA), Sisi Ntombela, said Mayor Jabulani Sigasa was relieved that Mafube Municipality was put under administration. She said the municipality served people from Frankfort, Tweeling, Cornelia, and Villiers which are mostly rural areas. Ntombela said the municipality had financial problems whereupon workers were not getting paid or paid late. The handling of pensions was also disastrous. She said her department would do the best they can to change the situation in Mafube where service delivery was badly affected due to lack of fuel for vehicles. Mafube Municipality has been financially unstable for the past five years as salaries were not being paid on time. More than 80 percent of the people living in Mafube are not working so it is difficult for them to pay for services such as water, electricity and many others. Many of the people survived through the paying of social grants for the elderly and children, said Ntombela.She said the municipality had been put under 139 b, which meant that the Department of COGTA would assist the municipality with finances. Mafube has a 458 workforce which cost the municipality a R7.3 million wage bill which was difficult. Ntombela said the mayor and the councillors had tried their best but the situation was hard for them. Mayor Jabulani Sigasa said he was relieved that the Department of COGTA was going to assist them in turning things around in the poor municipality. We were unable to pay salaries on time but our workers understood our predicament. We had also struck a deal with the pensioners that they should not despair about the situation, he said. Democratic Alliance Councillor Adele Mosia said there was no water and that the pensioners were not getting their pensions. She said the problems in Mafube started in 2012. Mafube owes Eskom about R1 million in unpaid tariffs. Mafube has a population of about 57 876 and only a small percentage of people living there are employed. The school drop-out rate was also very high. 