The Free State African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) has called on the mother body to institute disciplinary processes against former president Kgalema Motlanthe. Motlanthe received a standing ovation recently when he quoted a letter written by the late ANC stalwart Ahmed Kathrada to President Jacob Zuma. Motlanthe delivered a eulogy during the funeral service of Kathrada. In the letter Kathrada asked the president to step down as leader of the country citing poor leadership and rampant corruption within the ruling party The chairperson of the Youth League in the Free State, Makalo Mohale, accused Motlanthe of becoming an analyst in the media by declaring that the ANC was led by people who had no respect for the constitution. He recently turned himself into a memorial servicist by cowardly utilising the honourable platform to remember Seaparankwe (stalwart) Ahmed Kathrada to attack the leadership of the ANC, said Mohale. In an exclusive interview with Dumelang News yesterday, Mohale said the league was pleased that the ANC Secretary General, Gwede Mantashe, and deputy president Cyril, Ramaphosa are now backing Zuma s recent cabinet reshuffle which lead to the axing of former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas. Mantashe had initially pronounced his disapproval with Zuma s new cabinet but changed tune at the ANC national working committee briefing. ANCYL chastised Motlanthe for saying the expulsion of Julius Malema was a mistake although he was part of the collective leadership which welcomed this correct decision of expulsion. The last straw is his misguided interview with the sensational Daily Maverick on the 7th April 2017 encouraging ANC MPs to go against the decisions and directives of the National Working Committee and vote against the people s President, Jacob Zuma and claims that they cannot be disciplined for that anarchy, said the FS ANCYL chairperson. He continues by indicating that he would vote with opposition in the motion of no confidence against our president, given a chance. We call upon the leadership of the ANC to institute disciplinary actions against this kind of blatant ill-discipline, Mohale added.