Afrikaans, a language derived from Deutschland and German, mostly spoken by South African Afrikaners and Coloured people, was dropped as the language of record in the courts, earlier this week. Western Cape Judge President John Hlophe sent a message which was circulated throughout the South African courts that only English would remain as the language of record in all the courts. Hlophe urged all the courts to comply with the resolution to use English as many people used it in litigation and would make the work of the courts much easier to complete.' English must be the official language of record in all courts in the Republic of South Africa. Kindly ensure that there is compliance with this resolution in all courts in the Western Cape with immediate effect, Hlophe said. The Constitutional Court confirmed the decision. The AfriForum however criticised the decision claiming that Afrikaans speaking people would suffer and would challenge the resolution at the courts. It was reported that the language issue was raised at the Judicial Service Commission when Northern Cape judge Violet Phatsoane revealed that another judge had written a judgment in Afrikaans and told another who was not conversant with Afrikaans to consult a dictionary . There are eleven official languages in the country but English and Afrikaans have been used simultaneously by government in their publications since the dawn of democracy.The Constitutional spokesperson, Nathi Mncube said the decision was reached in October 2014 to scrap Afrikaans as the language of record in the courts and leave English as the main language of record. In a heads of court meeting held in October 2014, it was resolved that the language of record should be English. This resolution was taken recognising that English has become the general language of use nationally and internationally and to ensure effective communication, he said. A survey by Legal Aid South Africa last year found that 63.2 percent of people who applied for legal aid in criminal matters had at least a satisfactory understanding of English.