QWAQWA - The Municipality of Maluti-A-Phofung (MAP) last week joined hands with Dr Mamikie Molapo to assist over 200 grade 12 learners with new scientific calculators. In a marathon interactive motivational talk with hordes of matriculants at Mampoi High School in Qwaqwa, Mayor Vusimusi Tshabalala donated 203 Casio calculators to needy learners. Addressing matriculants, Tshabalala pleaded with them to be level headed and focused despite their current daunting circumstances as he believes they are bound to rise above any hindrance in their way. Through sheer hard-work, you can emerge victorious from humble beginnings, despite your current difficult circumstances.What is needed is commitment and determination, for they are the most powerful weapons for success. Nothing can prohibit you from accomplishing your goals,'' said Tshabalala. "This is a 104 days program that has been adopted by the government from provincial to municipal structures. We have made so many promises to our communities before the last local elections," said the mayor. Dr Mamikie Molapo encouraged matriculants to take responsibility of their future. Set your goals beyond limitation then you will achieve your dream. Matric is not a privilege, study hard and you will reap the fruits of your hard work, Dr Molapo said. The principal, Mphielo Chaka, said the donation will help to improve the pupil's performance in the final examinations."I am glad that the municipality has chosen our school out of many schools found in the region and that now leads us to do a bit of introspection to know that we have to work even harder than before. Maletsatsi Malakoane (18), a matric pupil, said she appreciates the support. "I have been using a calculator which has a broken screen but now my situation will change. I am grateful to the municipality for helping me. My parents can't afford to buy me the school equipment because they are not working," said Malakoane. She said it will boost her confidence and she will no longer feel different from other pupils.