BLOEMFONTEIN - MEC for Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation who stepped in as acting Premier of the Free State, Mathabo Leeto, condemned the senseless killing of women and children, following the discovery of two bodies of students who were kidnapped, raped and killed in cold blood at the east end in Bloemfontein last week. She said the whole province was in shock after learning about the gruesome killings. She said the ANC had made significant strides in making life better for all but the criminal elements in the society were taking South Africa backwards. We would like to send a strong message to all perpetrators of these evil acts. All those found guilty shall face the full might of the law. Women in this country have had a difficult past. The ANC government has made a lot of progress in fighting all forms of patriarchy, abuse of women and children as well as improving the socio-economic conditions of our vulnerable groups. These barbaric acts are an insult to this good progress that has been made. Enough is enough, said Leeto. She said another body of a 50-year-old man was found floating in a dam with his hands tied behind his back and his corspe was wrapped up in a blanket. The African National Congress Youth League in the Free State also slammed the barbaric killing of women. Their spokesperson, Sello Pietersen, said they have learned with a great sense of disgust of the brutal killing of women and children at the hands of the blood thirsty monsters who are supposed to act as the pillars of safety and security for women and children. We would like to assure society that we will never allow for this kind of madness in our province and we will leave no stone unturned in fighting these criminals. We will be working closely with the police and call upon all the young people to form the first line of defense across our communities through joining Community Policing Forums and other initiatives such as having regular discussions with young boys, reading these realities and how best to avoid and curb them, said Pietersen. Police have reported in the past weeks from 6 May that a 14-year-old girl was pulled out of a moving taxi by three men who raped her in Welkom. On 13 May, Mampe Motloung (31) was killed by her lover in Bethlehem after having an argument. And on 17 May two women aged 24 and 26 years were robbed of their cellphones and raped by some people who had promised to give them jobs. However, police spokesperson, Brigadier Motantsi Makhele, issued a statement pleading with the people to stop spreading alarming messages that women were being kidnapped as it was causing unnecessary panic. As Free State police, we have taken note of very disturbing and irresponsible messages, some with pictures, making rounds on social media about people who are kidnapping or attempting to attack girls or women in the province. We would like to appeal to the people to stop spreading these messages as it s seriously causing unnecessary havoc, said Makhele. He urged families to report missing relatives to the police anytime they become aware of it. Makhele said the undercover police were on the lookout for any suspicious people who might harm others.