The daughter of Meqheleng, a location in Ficksburg, who has been described as the rose that grew from the concrete, has sadly passed away.Rose Tatane (33) who came into the spotlight after her husband Andries Tatane was brutally killed on live television on 13 April 2011 fighting for service delivery, died in a car accident in Hlotse Lesotho, when she was travelling with her friend Teboho Tsholo on Monday. Tsholo was driving to Bela-Bela from Ficksburg when he lost control of the car which overturned killing both at the scene. Family Spokesman and brother-in-law, Lefu Tatane said the family and the community were shocked to hear about the sudden passing of Rose, who was the darling of Meqheleng. He said his family have lost a mother, sister and a friend who stood by the family during difficult times and never married anyone else as a sign of respect to the memory of his brother. My sister (Rose Tatane) died in a car accident when she was travelling to Bela-Bela in Lesotho when the driver of the van she was travelling in lost control at the curve, overturning and killing both of them. We are saddened by her sudden passing away and asking ourselves questions why she had to die a month after we commemorated the death of Andries (Rose s husband). She was a loving and respectful woman who cared about other people, said Lefu. He said the government had completed the house which they promised to build for the Tatanes in 2016. Lefu said Rose was going to be missed a lot in the family especially by her two surviving sons, Tsheliso (14) and Molefi (10). The Setsoto Municipal Manager, Tshepiso Ramakarane, said the municipality has lost an important person in the community who was known for her selfless work. May the soul of Rose rest in peace. We got the news that she died in a car accident while travelling in Lesotho. This is a tragic loss to the municipality and the whole community of Meqheleng, said Ramakarane. He said the Setsoto Municipality will help the family with the preparations for Rose s funeral. Democratic Alliance leader Patricia Kopane passed her condolences to the family for the loss of Rose. The DA has learnt with sadness that Andries Tatane s wife, Rose Tatane, was killed in a car accident. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family as they grieve her loss. It is sad to note that her efforts, and that of her husband, have failed to move the Setsoto Local Municipality to improve service delivery. Ficksburg residents still receive poor basic services, especially water and sanitation. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Tatane family and wish them strength in this difficult time, said Kopane. She said Rose was active in highlighting the lack of service delivery to the municipality and held authorities accountable keeping her husband s legacy alive.