MEC for Police, Roads and Transport Sam Mashinini said criminals should be clamped down and not allowed to thrive. He was revealing the decreased crime statistics at Perm building in Bloemfontein on Wednesday, for the Easter Weekend which started on 12 April and ended on 18 April where only eight people in the province died on the roads. Mashinini said the death of one person was too many as his department was looking forward to reducing crime statistics to zero. Free State was the only province in which road fatalities decreased while the rest of the country increased the death toll. Mashinini said it was important for his department to engage with the community timeously through the media as a lot of people get information from newspapers and radio stations. He said the police needed to be tough on criminals and that if criminals attacked them, they needed to respond accordingly. We have amongst other things committed ourselves to reducing road crashes and fatalities while at the same time tackling some of the stubborn crimes our province is beset with. The 2017 Easter period has shown that the Free State province was the only province nationally to reduce the fatalities. The historically notorious roads N1, N3, N5, N6 and N8 did not have any fatal crashes or fatalities during this period, said Mashinini. He was flanked by high ranking police officials and traffic officials who helped him in responding to the questions from members of the media. Mashinini said 774 people were arrested for various crimes ranging from murder, sexual offences, assault, car-jacking to robbery. He said murder and rape reported for the period of 2015 and 2016 from April until December had decreased by 7.8 percent and robberies had decreased by 3.1 percent, but stock-theft had increased by 5.3 percent and shoplifting increased by 0.8 percent. He said the police were all over the roads to ensure that everyone arrived safely at their destinations and perpetrators were apprehended. Meanwhile, Mashinini told the media that 46 road projects were completed at the cost of R1,3 billion and 5751 jobs were created.