The Department of Education in the Free State has rubbished false information that the Early Childhood Development Teachers have not been paid.The spokesperson of Education in the Free State, Howard Ndaba said the teachers were paid on 3 May, and the delay was caused by the verification of the teachers details. He said there was nothing sinister about the exercise as the department wanted to clean their records. This is no longer news because the teachers had been paid. We were verifying the teachers details on our records and the process was not intended to harm anyone. On May 3rd, all the teachers were paid their salaries in arrears, said Ndaba.However, the Democratic Alliance MPL in the Free State provincial legislature, Mariette Pittaway said she had written the letter to Minister of Labour, Mildred Oliphant, to launch an investigation into the Free State Department of Education for not following proper labour practices. It is a gross violation to expect any employee to deliver labour without timeous compensation. The Department is in breach of its contractual obligations towards teachers. More shocking is that the Department does not know how many teachers have been affected. I have today written to the Minister of Labour, Mildred Oliphant, requesting her to launch an investigation into the Free State provincial Department of Education for unfair labour practices and for failing to adhere to its contractual obligations towards employees, said Pittaway.She said her party had raised concerns in relation to late payments of subsidies to schools and partial payment of salaries. Pittaway said it was sad that MEC Tate Makgoe thought that his department was the best performing and managed in the country. She added that it was not enough that the department merely apologise to the teachers for their financial mismanagement and gross negligence of their duty in the administration. Pittaway bragged about Western Cape where she said DA government paid subsidies and salaries on time. The Free State Department of Education has failed to pay its share of the salaries of contract teachers since November. The department has extended its apologies for the delay in the payment of salaries, but this just does not cut it. Teachers affected were expected to pitch for work, while they only received partial payment of their salaries, paid by the school governing body bodies, she said.