Free State Stars goes into the Absa Premier League derby against Bloemfontein Celtic on Wednesday evening at the Dr Rantai Molemela stadium with their head held high after a 3-1 victory against the log leaders of Bidvest Wits. Ea Lla Koto had temporarily marched out of the relegation zone thanks to Makhehleni Makhaula, Mahomad Anas and Snethemba Jantjie who scored the three goals to give the home team a win. Cudbert Malajila netted a consolation goal for the visitors. The Bethlehem-based Stars have moved to position 13 with 26 games in 28 games. They are two points away from Chippa United and Baroka FC who are sitting 14th and 15 on the log. And they are four points away from Highlands Park who are rooted at the bottom of the table.Meanwhile, Celtic is 12th on the table with 27 points in 27 games and they are one point away from Stars. A contest between the two Free State big teams is expected to produce fireworks considering the fact that they both want to be safe from the relegation play-offs spot. An ability of strikes to score goals will be key in an attempt to secure the three needed points. However, Celtics have proved to be a difficult team to beat and solid in defence. They have played four draws in their last four league games with two of those ending goalless. They played to a goalless draw against the struggling Soweto giants of Orlando Pirates on Wednesday at Dr Molemela stadium in Mangaung. Celtic has a game to worry about against Ajax Cape Town away in Cape Town before they can shift their mind to a derby clash. They will lock horns with Ajax on Saturday evening at the Athlone stadium. Kick-off is at 8:15pm.Statistics favours Serame Letsoaka troops going into this derby, Stars have won four of the five clashes between meetings. It was only in the first round when they played to a goalless draw in a game that took place at the Goble Park stadium in Bethlehem. Both coaches Letsoaka and Lehlohonolo Seema will be looking at the 90 minutes of the game with hawk-eyes hoping for three points as there is also their pride at stake. However, the ability of coaches to plot each other s downfall is eminent. Letsoaka will pin his hopes on players such as Paulos Masehe, Jantjie, Anas and Sthembiso Mbele. Seema will hope that Musa Nyatama, Moeketsi Mvula and Lanchane Phalane will do the job for him.