Phuthaditjhaba - Maluti-a-Phofung Local Municipality in collaboration with Contralesa and the Free State House of Traditional Leaders have engaged in talks which will cement the involvement of traditional leaders in the municipal council. Traditional Leaders Summit which is the first of its kind seeks to mobilise all local traditional authorities within the municipality by affording them a chance to gain knowledge and to support programs that would change the status quo and improve the lives of the people. Speaking at the official opening of the summit on Tuesday, the Executive Mayor of Maluti-a-Phofung, Cllr. Vusi Tshabalala, told the traditional leaders and members of the community that the municipality will prioritise service delivery while working hand-in-hand with the traditional leaders. There is nothing that will happen in Maluti-a-Phofung without traditional leaders being involved and taking part. We will fast track the processes of getting traditional leaders in the municipal council, said Tshabalala. According to Tshabalala the summit was as a result of a call made by President Jacob Zuma to have government working with traditional leaders in service delivery processes. It's in our right to protect the president; you cannot come to Maluti-a-Phofung and tell us President Zuma is not the president and we should remove him. Zuma was elected by the branches of the ANC, he said Charity begins at home, we have done so many things, even the wrong ones, but today we have friends whom we all united under one roof. We are yet to bear the fruits of this gathering we hear the outcry by the Municipal Manager with regards to electricity and we support him, said Mofumahadi Mathokoana Mopeli speaking to members of the media on the sideline of the summit. Meanwhile, speaking to the People s Paper Tshabalala said the issue of illegal electricity connection can be addressed once people can get to buy electricity at their nearest selling points. Our people should not travel long distance to buy electricity. We will speak to our traditional leaders to assist us in identifying young people that can sell electricity in their perspective villages, this will prevent illegal electricity connections, said Tshabalala.