BLOEMFONTEIN- A "absolutely spectacular" new festival has been added to the South African events palette. The Free State Flower Festival, will take place from November 11-12 in Parys and will include 500 performers, five massive floats, giant flowers and fireworks, alongside an amazing floral storytelling precinct. The unique event is a joint venture between the Free State and the government of Madeira, who host the world s largest flower festival on the Portuguese island every April. Free State Tourism Authority (FSTA) CEO, Dhilosen Pillay, said the event had both trade and tourism benefits. This event is the brainchild of Free State Premier, Ace Magashule and Madeira President, Alberto Joao Jardim, and follows a trade visit to the Portuguese island in March this year, he said. The main objective of the festival will be to stimulate the flower industry in the province and to fast-track opportunities around export. As a tourism authority, we will also use the event to stimulate tourism in the region and draw in thousands of visitors from Gauteng and surrounding provinces, said Pillay. He said the bulk of African flower exports to Europe currently emanate from Kenya and it is hoped that through the Madeiran link, the event will unlock critical opportunities for South African farmers. The Festival will have three key components: Flower Forum: A gathering of leading local and international experts from the flower industry; incorporating presentations on local, national and world trends. Attendees and speakers will include botanists, floriculturists, horticulturists, farmers, retailers and wholesalers.Flower Parade: The tourism highlight of the event will be an extravaganza of colour, featuring some 500 choreographed performers, adorned in flowers and magnificent floral outfits. Flower Precinct: This will be an area where several floral exhibits will be located. These will include regional exhibitors, wholesalers, retailers and food and beverage providers. Among the highlights will be aerobatics, musical performances and various floral competitions.