Michael Johnson s 17year old 400m record came shuttering down on a Rio de Janeiro night when South African track ace, Wayde van Niekerk, powered home in just over a 43seconds. The performance has left the athletics world spellbound and scratching for superlatives to best describe such a wonderful feat.Running in lane 8, van Niekerk clocked 43, 03sec to eclipse Johnson s 1999 record by 0,15sec to claim South Africa s first gold medal of the Rio Olympic Games. Grenada s Kirani James settled for silver finishing 0,73sec slower while American LaShawn Merritt claimed bronze.This is the first time since 1968 that a non-American athlete has broken the 400m record. Lee Evans set a record of 43,86sec at the Mexico Olympics in 1968 before that record was broken by Butch Reynolds with a time of 43,29 at the Zurich Games in 1988. In 1999, Johnson, another American, set a new Olympic world record when he clocked a time of 43,18sec at the Seville Olympics.Van Niekerk had been training with Jamaican speed merchant, Usain Bolt, for two weeks before the Rio Olympics. Interestingly, the South African champion who hails from Bloemfontein, is trained by the vastly experienced 74year old Ans Botha who started her trade in the 1960s. I was over there for about two weeks training," said Van Niekerk. "Usain has been such a huge rock, inspiring me as an athlete. He told me back in Jamaica that 'you will break the world record'. And he came to me after and said 'I told you, you could do it'. Speaking after the race, American track legend, Michael Johnson described van Niekerk s performance as a massacre . It was a massacre. Van Niekerk is so young, what else can he do? Can he go under 43 seconds? It is something I thought I could do, but never did. Usain Bolt will be retiring soon, this could be the next star, Johnson was quoted as saying.Meanwhile, Usain Bolt broke another piece of history by claiming his third consecutive gold in the 100m. Although he was slower off the blocks, Bolt still managed to demonstrate that he was the undisputed sprint champion of the world to beat American Justin Gatlin with a time of 9,81secs to claim a historic third straight gold.