PUTHADITJHABA - Executive Mayor of Maluti-A-Phofung Local Municipality, Vusimusi Tshabalala, recently paid a visit to the Phuthaditjhaba residents at Freedom Square to introduce the new Members of Mayoral Committee (MECs) as well as to thank the various communities for part-taking in the local government elections. To show their appreciation, the members handed over much needed equipment to a significant number of informal traders. The beneficiaries received refrigerators, sewing machines, fish food, cooler boxes, wire fences, wheel barrows and garden tools. Tshabalala indicated that they were still working with the opposition parties such as DPSA (Dikwankwetla Party of South Africa) in the municipality. In this way, we are trying to build strong affiliation that will help provide the community with better service delivery and to show that the ANC government does not exclude residents from other parties but serves the entire community, Tshabalala said. The mayor also explained: We decided to promote informal traders in Phuthaditjhaba because it is where people will be able to access goods and services easily. Freedom Square will be used for flea market purposes so that traders can run their business continuously. Mosele Mampuru, coordinator of the Informal Trader s Uplifted Project in the Free State said that the Informal Traders Uplifted Project was a national project that targeted informal traders and home-based businesses.She added that they not only train potential beneficiaries but also supply them with the infrastructure equipment needed for starting businesses. Following the handing over of the equipment, Mofokeng Sepheto one of the beneficiaries from Mphatlalatsane Village said: Ke rata ho leboha Masepala wa selehae ka monyetla ona o refileng ona nna ke thabetse ho fuwa dijo tsena tsa ditlhapi, ho qala kgwebo ya ditlhapi ke ntho eo esale ke labalabela , kea leboha Majoro wa phethahatso. After handing over the equipment, Tshabalala, together with the MMCs, joined the cooperatives to paint and beautify Mampoi Road in Phuthaditjhaba. We need to keep our environment clean through cooperatives. That will also create jobs for unemployed youth around Maluti-A-Phofung, said the mayor as he officially announced and welcomed cooperatives that are working around the municipality to attend to road signs, road cleanliness and filling up potholes in all wards.