Lekwa Mokoining says self belief and determination played a pivotal role in Phaphama Public School s win over Brebner Primary in the Provincial Finals of the Danone under 12 soccer tournament over the weekend. Mokoining and his troops beat the local school not only to claim the provincial rights, but also book their spot in the national finals where they will represent the province against other provincial winners. Speaking to Dumelang Sport, Mokoining was thrilled with his side s overall performance, but admitted it was not an easy tournament. Credit must go to my boys. I must say, things were tough for them throughout. We trained throughout Easter Holidays with the aim of reaching the heights we did not how to reach. We expected tough competition, and that s what we got, and I m happy with how they performed, he said. Representing Thabo Mofutsanyana at the Provincial Finals held at Grey College, Phaphama got their show underway with wins over win over Jagersfontein and Zamaleka. Their joy was short-lived when they were downed by Brebner in the third match, but ended the round robin stage with yet another win over Tikwe. He added that coming to the provincial finals, the aim was to win the opening match and pick up momentum as early as possible. I emphasised that we need to win the opening match to build an early momentum and they did just like that. Honestly, we didn t expect to win the title and get the opportunity to represent the province nationally. But it happened. If I can, you also call is what keeps this team going. The National Finals will be staged in Johannesburg in July and the man at the helm is already looking forward to the showdown. It s going to be tough, because the road to the provincial level was not easy and getting to the final stage was not easy as well, for us and all other provincial winners I'm sure. Therefore, more hard work is required. We re intending to fixing where we lacked and not change anything really, because most of our strategies worked for us." Phaphama is a Public School located in the small location named Mashaeng, near Fourisburg, between Ficksburg and Bethlehem.