Four university's law faculties are facing expulsion if they don't get their house in order by Council on Higher Education. University of South Africa, North West, Walter Sizulu and University of the Free State have been given notice of withdrawal of accreditation if they don't resolve the matters within six months. Challenges facing the universities are that there are too many modules to be completed by a student to qualify for a Bachelor of Law degree within four years. In 2012 the Council on Higher Education (CHE) and South African Law Deans Association (SALDA) extensively deliberated on the matter of whether the CHE should undertake a national review of the Bachelor of Law (LLB) qualification.The Director of the National Standard and Reviews Olivia Mokgatle in a statement said the agreement was reached that a national review of the LLB programme would be appropriate to strengthen the quality of legal education provision across South African universities. The four universities have been warned to get their house in order so as to avoid crisis that would befall the students who are already studying towards their law degree qualification. Furthermore the HEQC requires an improvement plan with clear targets, resource allocations and milestones within six months of receipt of the review report. Institutions are therefore required to report to the HEQC from time to time on progress made in respect of improvement to the programme. All improvement plans and progress reports received by the HEQC will be evaluated, said Mokgatle. She said the institutions were requested to identify areas in their programmes which did not currently meet Standard and indicate plans for improvement together with proposed timelines for implementation. Mokgatle said the qualification standard was regarded as an instrument for programme development.She added that the national review would enhance the quality of LLB qualification in all 17 universities which are University of Johannesburg, Nelson Mandela University, University of Venda, University of Limpopo, Rhodes University, University of Zululand, and University of the Western Cape, University of Cape Town, Stellenbosch, Witwatersrand, Fort Hare, KwaZulu-Natal, Pretoria, North West, Walter Sisulu, South Africa and Free State. The national review included all LLB programmes, BA (Law) and BComm (Law), she said. UFS spokeswoman Lacea Loader said the faculty of law participated in the 2016 national curriculum review of the LLB degree in 2016. The draft report that was issued to the UFS Faculty of Law indicated that, although the degree largely meets most of the standards for the qualification, the primary concern of the CHE regarding the programme is the number of credits students are required to complete for the degree. Based on CHE credit limits for programmes, the LLB degree programme is too overloaded for a four-year programme. The CHE thus requires the faculty to address its concerns, said Loader. Candidate Attorney Azola Key said while he was still a student, they had raised the issue of many modules that they had to take within a short space of time and had wished that the LLB programmes which takes four years could be spread to five years.Free State and Northern Cape law society President Leah Molatseli said it was expected that anyone could struggle in a new job environment as one makes a transition from being a student to a lawyer. She said the review was welcome and that the University will increase the quality of the programme and students.