The Thabo Mofutsanyana Education District invited the management of all the schools in the district on Wednesday to present the five awards that they recently won at the 2017 national excellence awards which were held on the 7th April in Pretoria. The district scooped four positions one and one for the third place. They won Top performing district - high percentage pass: 2016 NSC (more than 401 schools), Top performing district 2014-16: Focus on Bachelor passes, Top performing district high overall quality score (201-400 schools), Top performing district 2014-2016 a focus on Mathematics, Physical Science and Accounting. The last one was third position on Most improved district: High improvement in NSC results since 2014. Radiipone Sempe, the acting chief specialist curriculum said they are the district that works very hard to achieve its goal. We using teach and assess strategy and it has work wonders since it was implemented. We are doing that from grade R to grade 12. We have five pillars of that. The first pillar is quality. Every written work given to learners should have quality. A second pillar, we check how often the learners get something to write. The third we make sure that the learners work is been marked, are corrections done after that and the last one is that of monitoring and control, he said. Lindiwe Mabaso, the acting director said he was very happy with the district achievement. He said they have proven to be the best district in education not only in the Free State province but also at the national level. I am so great full with the hardworking officials of the district. You could see that our district it is a district that works with all the stakeholders hence we always produce excellent results, she said. She said they invited the schools to show them what they have achieved and at the same time to map a way forward so that they could improve on what they have achieved. We are going to repeat it. We are a district on it toes in making sure that we produce the best out of our learners. We are proud of Rantsane Secondary School who came second at the national award in the quintile one schools, she said.