The in troubled Free State Stars will have to win at least two of their four remaining Absa premier league games to keep their hopes of playing in the elite league alive. However, they will have to pray that Baroka FC and Highland Park who are coming behind them to lose point in their last games.The mission starts today as they are out to search for three points against the wounded Cape Town City at the Athlone Stadium in Cape Town. Kick-off is scheduled for 20:00 However, the Bethlehem based outfit comes into this encounter liking their fresh wounds after they suffered a 1-2 defeat to the inform Polokwane City who stole the three points at the Stars backyard in Goble Park stadium in Bethlehem on Saturday.Ea Lla Koto players and the coach know that this would not be an easy contest following the City 1-0 loss to Maritzburg United in a game that took place at the Herry Gwala stadium last Monday. However, the new kids on the block, City will come to this encounter with guns blazing in search of a win to keep their title hopes alive. A lose to Star will surely dished out their hope to lift the league trophy on their first appearance. The Citizens are sitting third on the log table with 49 points after 26 games. They are two and one points away from Bidvest Wits and Mamelodi Sundowns who are at the helm and second on the log. The Serame Letsoaka troops are sitting uncomfortably at the 14th spot with 23 points in 26 games. They are just one point away from Highlands Park who is rooted at the bottom of the table and they are separated by goal difference from Baroka FC who is second from bottom. After this contest, Stars will be left with three games.They will welcome Wits at Goble Park stadium next Wednesday; visit the equally troubled Bloemfontein Celtic in Bloemfontein before wrapping the season with Chippa United on their home turf. The three games will not be a walk in the park as Wits is eyeing the championship trophy while Celtic and United are not yet safe from the relegation axe and they will be fighting for their dear life. Sereame Letsoaka admitted after losing to Polokwane that things were really getting hard. That was a game we were sure that we will win but things did not go our way. The team performed well but gave away two gaols in critical conditions, he said. He said All games were dangerous and we were aware of that from game number seven. It is getting tricky and trickier and more difficult. 