Expensive champagne is stored in the fridge for what could be a league deciding game when the top of the table Super Eagles lock horns with the relegation candidate of Dla2 FC in the South African Football Association (Safa) ABC Motsepe league. The Eastern Free State derby will take place at the Bethlehem Show Ground on Saturday at 3pm. A full house capacity is expected as the Safa delegation will also be at the venue to present the trophy if Eagle wins the game. The Bethlehem based outfit need the Saturday s three points as much as Dla2 does and surely the game will produce fireworks. Eagles are leading the log table with 63 points after 28 games. They are four points away from Harmony FC who are sitting second with only two games remaining. Dla2 are second from bottom with 20 points in 28 games. They are six points away from Dinonyana FC who are rooted at the bottom of the table and one point behind Lijabatho FC. The ABC Motsepe rookies, Dla2 needs to win two of their games or at least get four points to avoid the relegation axe. However, they know that they will have to give it all and play their hearts out to beat the highflying Eagles who are yet to lose a game in the second round of the league. It is not for the first time that Eagles finds themselves in this situation where they need a point to lift a trophy and in both contests they had a home advantage. A season before last 2015 -16 season Eagles dished out their chances of playing in the promotional play-offs when they lost 1-2 at the hands of defunct Roses United FC of Bloemfontein in the last game of the league. Eagles needed only one point in that game but they failed to protect their 1-0 lead and lost that game. Strike Mabasa, the chairperson of the champions elect, Eagles, said the players are more than ready for the game. He added that the mood in the camp was sky high. The players and the management are gradually edging closer to the realisation of the teams ambition. The game on its own doesn t require any special motivation. The destiny of the championship is firmly placed in our hands, he said. He said they actually need one point to lift the cup with a better goal difference. I can t foresee Harmony upstaging us on that aspect. Three points will make the league out of their reach in terms of points, he added.