The Western Cape Premier and Former DA federal leader, Helen Zille felt the brunt of twitterati after her controversial tweet where many regarded her as an apartheid and colonialism apologist. She tweeted on the micro-blog platform, Twitter, that For those claiming legacy of colonialism was only negative, think of our independent judiciary, transport infrastructure, piped water etc. Then woke twitter lapped on her foot in the mouth comment that even made African National Congress and Economic Freedom Fighters calling for her head. This is the second time that Zille found herself on the wrong side of the law, hurting her party chances of ever leading the country with her racial bias.She later apologised by tweeting I apologise unreservedly for a tweet that may have come across as a defence of colonialism. It was not. Her tweeter trying to apologise came late as even his DA party leader Mmusi Maimane tried to clarify his party s position but EFF spokesman and his party had none of saying that there was nothing to clear. Party leader Mmusi Maimane tweeted Let s make this clear; Colonialism, like Apartheid, was a system of oppression and subjugation. It can never be justified. EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said his party rejected Zille s apology because she did not mean it. EFF rejects the Premier of Western Cape, Helen Zille s apology following her unconstitutional, racist and anti-black remarks on social media. After taking to twitter to argue that aspects of colonialism were bad . This means she apologizes not because she thinks her idea that aspects colonialism was not bad is wrong, but that this view may hurt others, Ndlozi said. ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa said his party was not surprised by Zille s utterances as they reflected those of her staunch white party members. The African National Congress is appalled, although not surprised at the latest social media pro-colonialism rant by a leader of the Democratic Alliance. The remarks Zille made on social media in defence of colonialism are nothing short of the type of posture you would expect from a colonial apologist, said Kodwa. He said it was saddening to have leaders who claimed to be constitutional and yet harboured deep views espoused unjust system of exploitation, subjugation and oppression.However, her party tried to lessen the blow by releasing a statement saying that Maimane has reported Zille to their federal legal Commission for investigation. DA spokeswoman Phumzile Van Damme said colonialism, like apartheid was wrong as it oppressed millions of people and violated human rights in a cruel way. Colonialism, like Apartheid, is in every single way against our cherished values of freedom, fairness and opportunity for all. The DA is party that is committed to redressing the wrongs of the past, said Van Damme.