Thaba Nchu - There was joy and excitement on the face of the pupils when the Department of Education in the Free State in partnership with National Lottery Commission (NLC) launched and also handed over the newly built school hostel on Friday at Sediti High School. The NLC approved an amount of R15million funding for the construction of the hostel for the disadvantaged pupils of Sediti High School. The hotels will be used to accommodate 300 pupils who travel daily, in some cases up to 70 kilometres, to the school using scholar transport that is sometimes unreliable and puts a negative impact on academic performance at the school. Sediti High School is located 40 kilometres in the outskirts of Thaba Nchu and the area is very rural with no proper infrastructure including roads. The unemployment is quite high and the parents of the pupils in that area rely mainly on social grants. The provincial department of education has availed a school bus and at times because of the poor road conditions the pupils are unable to attend school. Today we are launching and handing over the newly built hostels to school children of Sediti, said Tate Makgoe the MEC of education. The children who attend this school don t have meals three times a day. Children who attend school travel long distances to school. When they arrive at home the environment may not be conducive for learning and teaching, Makgoe said. This infrastructure provides an ideal environment for learning and teaching. It is up to the people who work here to protect the buildings and support these children, added the MEC. Makgoe further indicated that the school should produce to professionals. They come here as farm pupils as rural pupils, they must leave here going straight to the world s best universities and that is what is going to happen, said Makgoe. The grade 12 s were in the 60% pass rate a few years ago and by just using the hostel lifestyle we have seen the pass percentage rise to 88% and last year they achieved 89%. So you can see that they are getting closer to 100% target. 