The Memorial service of a noble community leader was held in Virginia and was reminisced as the most giving and caring person on Thursday, the day South Africans celebrated 23 years of freedom. Gogo Nnuku Elizabeth Radebe (85) passed away after being hospitalized in Pelonomi after she suffered a car accident in Welkom. Her death shocked the community as she was full of life, helping the needy through her many social uplifting community projects such as soup kitchens for the needy and HIV and TB patients in Virginia and running a Meloding day care centre for the children of which she started in 1979 with 73 children.Radebe was born in Mapallong Smaldel farm near Theunissen in the Free State, was the second born child of Ntate Molapo and Mme Matladi Makhathe and did her schooling at Bantu United School. She furthered her studies at Moroka Missionary School in Thaba-Nchu after which she became the first African midwife after completing her studies in 1959. Mayor Nkosinjani Speelman said Welkom had lost an important member of the community who gave her all in making the lives of other people better. We have lost an incredible woman who was selfless and had genuine love for the community of Meloding and Virginia. Her name will never be forgotten as she has left an indelible mark in the hearts of her people, said Speelman.bRadebe was married to Ntate Andrew Moruti Radebe and together had two children Zipho and Thokozile. Her husband was politically active and the apartheid police special branch forced the Virginia Municipality to fire her and relocate to Eastern Cape because of the uplifting they were doing in the community as they were labeled communists . They refused and after a long battle with authorities, Radebe dusted herself off and was employed by Harmony Hospital in Virginia as a nurse and six month later promoted to Senior Sister. Radebe got the support of Mariekie De Klerk and former minister Health Rena Venter for funding and got it. Her job also saw her travelling to Sweden to get furniture for her work. In 1993, she was voted by Sowetan publication as the Woman of the year in the Free State. Radebe is also credited for playing a huge role for the establishment of a suburb called Eureka Park, Community Library, several food gardens, Home Based Care for orphans, vulnerable children and child headed house hold. Radebe will be buried on Saturday at 09:00 and the funeral service would be held at Meloding Community Hall before proceeding to old Meloding Cemetery near municipal offices.