Residents of Seven Days township in Mangaung have shut down Fort Hare Road in protest of Ward 3 ANC councillor Khosi Mogapi and have threatened to burn down her house if their grievances are not addressed by the ANC and Mangaung Metro Mayor, Olly Mlamleli. Burning tyres and blocking the road with stones on Wednesday, residents accused Mogapi of side-lining residents at projects run by the metro in that vicinity. According Palesa Mokoena, a resident in Seven Days, the councillor apparently only listed her faction to work at construction projects currently underway in the area. Mokoena told Dumelang News that Mogapi also elected the steering community and community liaison officers without engaging the community. Mokoena said complaints lodged at the ANC s Kaizer Sebothelo offices have fallen on deaf ears. Another resident, Lerato Dipoko, accused Mogapi of disrespecting residents raising concerns of service delivery in Ward 3. I am an ANC supporter but some leaders within the organisation are abusing the party s policies for self-enrichment. Why is the ruling party abusing even those who put it in power? asked Dipoko. This is not the first time residents have protested against Mogapi. During the 2016 May local elections residents demonstrated against her after the ANC allegedly flouted processes and announced her as Ward 3 councillor candidate. Mogapi is the daughter of Xoli Pongolo, who allegedly shuffled Mogapi into the councillor seat after stepping down last year. Pongolo was a councillor for Ward 3 for a decade. In the meantime community members have halted operations at construction projects being run at the Ward and have threatened to burn down Khosi s house if the ANC and Mlamleli do not intervene. The metro s ANC chief whip Zolile Mangcotywa confirmed that a concerned group in Ward 3 approached him last month to discuss grievances. Mangcotywa, however said the group also disrupted a community meeting called by the councillor for the selection of a steering committee. According to the chief whip the ward currently runs without the committee, which is supposed to represent interests of the community at projects run in the area. He said Mogapi will hold another meeting with the community to address issues.