Workers from different organisations affiliated to Cosatu brought the Workers day celebrations in Bloemfontein to a screeching halt with their thunderous chorus, calling for President Jacob Zuma to go, on Monday. Some analysts had correctly predicted that the main May Day celebration which is observed throughout the world would be in disarray in Bloemfontein at Lochlogan Park, if President Jacob Zuma was allowed to address the masses. Cosatu President Sidumo Dlamini who is seen to be close to Zuma, forged ahead in inviting the president despite the calls from Nehawu, Communication Workers union and other unions that Cosatu replace the president with his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa, whom the trade unions want him to become president of ANC in December and ultimately of the country in 2019.Workers clad in their red t-shirts marched from Batho Location singing, chanting and dancing to struggle songs while walking to Lochlogan Park next to Waterfront Mall. At 11:00 am, large numbers of workers got in high spirits waving placards denouncing Zuma. Others chanted Zuma must fall , Zuma must go and others said Sidumo must fall . While others occupied the space in the park waiting to hear from their leaders who were billed to address them, SACP and Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande, Cosatu s leader Sidumo Dlamini, Sanco s leader Richard Mdakane and President Jacob Zuma, others started a fist fight outside the venue. The fight was dissolved immediately while the riot police kept a close eye to the unravelling events. Members from Nehawu, National Union of Mineworkers, Sanco and others entered the venue after going through a thorough security checks at the entrance, joining others with a song and just pushing everyone out of their way until they stopped in front of the security fence separating the crowd with the VIP section.The boisterous crowd sang loudly and started chanting, Zuma Must fall, Zuma must go and carried placards saying Zuma must resign and Rest in Peace Zuma. The cameramen and journalists from different media houses moved their equipment forward to avoid it being destroyed. Cosatu leadership tried in vain to calm the tense situation but the rowdy workers became more emboldened and louder singing songs against Zuma and Dlamini. Earlier on Naledi Pandor was booed when she was introduced to the workers. Provincial Cosatu secretary Monyatso Mahlatsi pleaded with the workers to be disciplined and exercise restraint but when he realised that his words were falling on deaf ears, he told the workers that the rally has been cancelled and that speeches would not be made. Comrades we are no longer going to make any speeches. We are going to hand over our memorandums to the CEOs of companies and go home. Please go home safe, said Mahlatsi who was visibly irritated by the rowdy workers. Rashaad Dadoo from Business Disinvest Sanctions South Africa (BDSSA) gave a message of support to the workers by saying that the workers should unite. We are united here today as a reminder to capitalists that the working class struggle continues. We have brought change in the #Feesmustfall movement. We call on the Israel to stop apartheid against Palestine. 495 women and children were killed in Palestine, said Dadoo. He said it was sad that workers were being chaotic at the workers day celebration yet they were supposed to be united against exploitation of workers.