The Free State government has denied rumours that government was witch-hunt to get the workers who protested against President Jacob Zuma on May Day at Lochlogan Park, so as to victimise them. Premier Ace Magashule reiterated that every worker had the right to exercise his political rights which are enshrined in the constitution. In a statement issued by his spokesman Tiisetso Makhele, Magashule made it clear that the Free State government respected the rights of all employees, citizens to participate in the legal activities of any trade union or political association of their choice. He said the workers were urged not from allowing themselves from being misled by people peddling lies and driving smear campaigns against government. Magashule noted that there were other publications which had spread the lies since Monday about what he said after the May Day was disrupted and cancelled. We urge all our employees to avoid being recruited into campaigns that seek to derail us from achieving a democratic, non-racial, non-sexist, united and prosperous South Africa. All employees are urged to participate freely in all activities which are in line with the Constitution of the Republic as well as the laws of our country, said Magashule. Magashule said the government was aware that there were false messages being circulated on the social media platforms alleging that there was a witch-hunt against the government employees so as to victimise them after protesting against Zuma. He said the rumours were untrue and that the tripartite alliance had a meeting on Tuesday in order to improve the relationship between the three parties.Meanwhile, Magashule addressing the media on Monday said Zuma still enjoyed popularity in the ANC and that people loved him because he was the man of the people. He said he was not fazed by the noises made by the workers calling for Zuma to step down as the president of the country. What you have seen being displayed here is mob psychology. We have been nurtured in the ANC traditions and culture and we know politics. When leadership is divided, people will be divided. We have a close working relationship with Cosatu as we had helped it the formation of it because we understood the issues of the workers. We must unite and confront all the bad elements in our movements. This is an embarrassment to the leadership of what is happening here, said Magashule. He said he was not worried about anything because he was not a threat to anyone. Magashule made a strong call for people with their own agendas not to destabilise the country. He said the disruptions have made the alliance to work together as a unit so as to make the country stable. Magashule said it was wrong for Cosatu to tell ANC who should lead it and that he was waiting for the right moment to show support for any presidential candidate once the process has been declared open.However, ANC Youth League leader in the Free State Makalo Mohale was blatant in naming former Home Affairs minister and African Union Leader Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma is their preferred candidate to take over President Zuma in December. He said it was an indictment on the alliance partners that Zuma was shown hostility in Bloemfontein. This is a serious indictment on the alliance partners. The hostility they have against the President is uncalled for. These people are not from the Free State, we heard that they have been bussed in here from Kimberley to disrupt the event. But we are united in the Free State. Anarchists behaved like singing pop idols in a competition disregarding the calls to listen to the leaders when they speak, said Mohale. ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa said politics of the cult should be stopped because they were destroying the party and destabilising the alliance.