Super Eagles has ended the seven year silver wear drought after they won the South African Football Association (Safa) ABC Motsepe league in the Free State. Eagles were crowned the champions after they hammered Dla2 FC by 4-1 in a drilling Eastern Free State derby that took place at the packed Goble Park stadium in Bethlehem on Saturday. With only one league game remaining, the Bohlokong based outfit is leading the log table with four points. They have collected 66 points after 29 league games with Harmony FC coming second with 61 points after the same number of games. Eagles will visit Sibaye Golden Stars in their last game of the season and they will be presented with a league trophy regardless the results. A game will take place at the Bronville stadium on Saturday afternoon. Kick-off is scheduled for 3pm. Tshegofatso Mashego, the Eagles mentor, said he was happy to win the league just after his first appearance with the team. He said the boys played their hearts all out and deserved to win the league. I am not disrespecting the teams that were in contest with the reality is we should have won the league with five games remaining. The boys were disturbed after losing in the final of the Nedbank preliminary game and we have to work with their mental strength, he said. The former Free State Stars player told Dumelang News that their game last week against Dla2 required mental strength since the boys knew what was at stake. We had our game plan going into that game but our opponents gave us a run for our money. We still have one game to play at the weekend and just have to focus on that game before we can talk about the promotional play-offs, he said. The Strike Mabasa s team will represent the Free State province in the upcoming national play-offs which will be held in East London. They will be fighting for the promotion to the National First Division (NFD) against the winners from eight other provinces within the country. We have five players injured at the moment and one injured so we going into the weekend game positive because we still want to maintain our unbeaten run in the second round. The race is not won yet as we know that we are yet to play in the play-offs because our ultimate goal is to get promotion to the next league, he said.