Elizabeth De Koker became the first female chairperson of the South African Football Association (Safa) Dihlabeng local football association (DLFA) since its inception. She was elected the chairperson at the Annual Conference which was held at the Dihlabeng Town Hall in Bethlehem on Sunday. De Koker was contested the position with Lefa Mokoena and became tops, with 46 votes against 4. She succeeded Mpati Maseru who guided the association to the greater heights during his seven year tenure. De Koker, who hails from Barken Park near Bethlehem, became the first chairlady to guide the football association in the Thabo Mofutsanyana district. She is however not new in football as she served in the LFA committee that handed over to the one at the Conference.Lefa Mokoena, Saki Pheleu and Matankiso Titi were elected deputy chairpersons of the association with Myrim Hamphreys snatching the treasure seat unchallenged. When delivering his speech, the outgoing chairperson, Mpati said it was emotional to leave the association and people that he had worked with for seven years. He said he was however sure that there was something special about the fact that he lead for seven years and his term ended on the 7 May 2017. In the bible it says God created the world and rested on the seventh day, so I think this is the time I should rest, he said. He said he was happy of all the achievement that he has achieved as a chairperson but he would not stand tall and brag about them like a peacock. Development of football is a marathon without a finishing line. I urge those who came in to keep the ball rolling and let the development be a priority. You should always strive for unity and never fight on the road. I will not rule from the grave but I am always available for the advices, he said. De Koker said she was humble to be elected the chairperson and added that she would like to thank all people who entrusted her with the position. She said she would make sure that we started where Mpati ended because he has done a good job during his term. I am going to make sure that we work with people because without them we would not win. We should let football be the winner. I also want to make sure that we promote the ladies soccer in our units because we want to see females going to the fields and playing, she said.